So  we're  going  to  basically  start with  sitation  work  at  all. But  I  wanted  to  let  you  know. So  lab  two  is  out. The  core  of  lab two  is  let's  see  your  website, which  is  basically  a  tutorial  on how  to  do  claim  econometric  analysis. Don't  come  from  comeback  ground. Econometrics  is  just  a  wave. You  mean  multivariate  regressions  in a  way  that  that  accounts  for  causality. We'll  talk  about  it  more in  my  part  of  the  lecture, but  I'm  scdcause  just yesterday  I  found  out  that, so  I  submitted  this to  the  Journal  of  Open  Source  Education, which  is  a  fascinating  journal  review  process because  basically  it's  a  Gib. I,  you  know,  I  sort  of  put together  the  paper  which  is  like a  two  page  papers  of  things, points  to  this  as  a  markdown  file, put  it  onto  Github. It  automatically  compiles  it  into  a  PDF. Everything  else,  like all  the  reviewers,  reviews, they're  all  as  gethub  issues  or automatic  bought  things  happening  on  Github. So  finally,  our  last  sticky  reviewer  has, has  said  everything  looks,  looks  good. You  can  go  ahead  and  so  this is  only  going  to  be  natural  change, but  really  cool  resource. The  main  part  of  the  lab though  is  down  on  site. Here  you'll  see  these  hands  on exercises  and  the  fourth, actually  you're  only  going  to do  12.4  because  three requires  some  bit  finicky  software. The  software  doesn't  work  on  some  poles, computers  or  some  pose  set  ups. And  so  I  just  gave  you  the  data  for  sure. But  yeah, aside  from  me,  from  most  of  the  lab, can  you have  the  incredible  power  in  your  hands  now with  the  other  thing  is  oh  yeah. So  I  was  supposed  to  do  for you  guys  come  last  Thursday, It's  going  to  be  just  like  a  Psu  handling data  and  I  forgot, but  I  want  to  I  want  to  do it  another  premediateate  future. So  Tuesday  and  it's  going  to  be  trying to  sort  of  triangulate on  all  the  different  ways  that climate  data  goes  with  impact. So  you've  already  done  climate data  hazards  with  level  one. You're  going  to  do  econometrics, which  is  the  estimation  of the  impact,  the  response. And  two,  but  you haven't  done  and  what  you  but  I currently  don't  have  anything  for  you  to  do on  is  the  project  anything  out  to  the  future. So  we're  going  to  my  plan  is to  use  those  to devote  envelopes  I  was showing  you  with  blue  crap. Combine  that  with  some  climate  data  for the  future  of  the  oceans  and  then  reproduce. And  then  go  beyond  what  they  have  for the  suitability  envelopes  for the  future  or  rather the  Zuo  regions  for  the  future. So  yeah, fun  bringing  your  laptop  so  that  you  can  do. We're  trying  to  keep  the  barkms  that  there. I  just  on  the  last  kee, I  didn't  want  to  interrupt the  flow  of  what  we're doing  here  to  draw  any  questions. I  know  that  some  of  you  have questions  on  the  lab, hopefully,  may  be  questions. I  have  a  little  bit  of  time  afterwards. If  you  want  to  ask  me  questions, can  you  just  do  the  one  that  you  want  me? Great. Thank  you as  well. All  right.  Well,  hello  everyone. My  name  is  Frank  and I  will  be  presenting  this  paper, The  Global  Non  Linear Effect  of  Temperature  on  Economic  Production by  Burke  and  co  authors. And  this  was  published  in  major  2015. And  so  that's  a  pretty  brief  paper, so  I  will  also  keep  my  presentation  brief. As  an  overview,  I'll  talk about  what explicitly  the  research  question  is, what  the  motivation  behind  asking this  research  question  is,  the  methodology, what  they  plan  on  doing, the  results  of  the  methodology and  the  discussion  points  that  I will  try  to  integrate  throughout the  other  parts  of  the  presentation about  what  they  could  be  doing  differently or  why  things  for  the  prod, Okay,  so  what  is the  research  question  explicitly? It  is  what  is  the  effect  of climatic  conditions  on  economic  activity? And  so  how  they're  going  to  measure economic  activity  here  is  growth. So  there's  lots  of  reasons  to  do  that, and  one  of  which  is because  they're  studying  a  long  time  period, 60  I  think  to  2015  or  2010. And  preparing  GDP,  you  know, across  decades,  can  sometimes  be  problematic. Just  because  GDP  is a  measure  that  is difficult  to  measure  one,  right? And  that  measuring  in  1960, 2010,  it  looks  very  different. Preparing  one  year  is a  better  solution  a  lot  of  times, and  also  happens  with  growth. The  climatic  conditions,  part  of  it, will  be  measured  by temperature  and  precipitation. As  a  quick  preview  of  what  they  find, they  find  that  the  effect  of these  climatic  conditions, right,  temperature  recitation, economic  activity,  is  not  linear, this  big  deal  as  we go  through  motivation  between reconciling  the  difference  between micromodels  which  are  not  linear, and  then  models  which have  been  previously  found  to  be  linear, that  productivity  peaks around  13  degrees  and  unmitigated  warming, it  would  reduce  average  global  incomes by  23%  by  the  end  of  the  century. Okay,  so  what  is  the  motivation? Fundamental  productive  elements  such  as  like productivity  of  labor  and  agriculture, for  example,  exhibit highly  non  linear  responses to  local  temperature. This  makes  sense,  right? When  it  becomes  hotter  outside, you  have  to  exert  more  energy. Maybe  you  become  less  productive  in your  task  compared to  previous  macroeconomic  models. It  has  been  demonstrated  that productivity  of  wealthy  country  countries is  reported  to  not  respond  to  temperature  and respond  linearly  in  form  or  countries. Why  is  there  this  mismatch  between what  we  expect  at  the  micro level  and  the  macro  level? And  this  paper  will  investigate  that. So  some  evidence  they  have for  the  local  effects  of  temperature. That  losses  occur  after certain  high  temperatures  and that  these  losses  can  get drowned  out  by  simultaneous, cooler  temperatures  in  different  locations. So  this  figure  is  talking  about productivity  and  labor  for the  first  two  graphs  on  the  top. And  then  maze  yields  like corn  yield  right  at  the  bottom  of  the  figure. And  so  you  can  see  in  each  case, usually  after  30  degrees  C, the  productivity  of  either  your  labor  or your  agriculture  takes  a  turn,  right? It's  pretty  flat  up  until  that  point. The  reason  why  they  suspect  previous  models weren't  able  to  capture this  non  linearity  is  because  of  this. Is  because  if  you  are  in  a  region  that has  hot  weather  and you  do  experience  this  productivity  loss, and  then  you  combine  it with  other  regions  that are  flat  or  below  30  degree  threshold. Then  that  can  cause  on  average, a  smaller  effect,  redose  linear,  linear. They  build  out  this  theoretical framework  where the  economic  output  y is  a  function  of  temperature. What  they  do  is  some  function  per  industry  I, that  describes  the  productive  capabilities. What's  going  on  behind  the  scenes? There  is  like  a  Co  Douglas  model,  right, where  you  have  capital  and  labor, some  technology  that  all depend  on  temperature. To  some  extent,  you  can  reduce  that  to just  a  generalized  function  that  depends on  temperature  times  this  other  function, which  is  like  a  distribution  of  hours,  right? Productivity,  how  much  stuff  you  can produce  per  time,  times  time,  right? Should  give  you  output. But  then  you  sum  it  up across  industries  and  across  temperatures. So  why  is  there  a summation  sign  over  industry? Because  the  industries  are  discrete. There's  so  many  find  number  of  industries. And  then  there's  an  integral  sign for  temperatures, temperatures,  a  continuous  level of  temperature. So  at  the  end  of  it  what  you  have  is this  function  Y  that  depends  on  temperatures. Then  you  have  some  fraction  of  hours that  spent  below  that  critical  temperature, which  is  a,  is  about  30  and they  call  that  M  I  one. And  then  above  that  critical temperature  is  my  two. That  doesn't  show  up  directly  in this  theoretical  framework,  it  shows  up  next. What  we're  going  to  do  is  map  that  local microeconomic  response onto  some,  onto  this  function. And  create  a  macro  economic  response. That's  what  they  do  here,  is  that at  certain  critical  temperature where  you  start  to lose  productivity  via  your  labor  or agriculture  or  otherwise,  there's  this  kink. And  so  that's  in  figure  D.  In  this  figure, you're  increasing  or  flat  at some  slope  over  a  temperature, and  then  at  some  point  it  drops  off. And  so  that's  why  on  this  distribution, an  right,  a  shift  in  the  temperature causes  a  shift  in the  area  over  this  critical  temperature. And  so  if  you smooth  that  out,  that  becomes  Anne, there's  this  non  linear  effect of  temperature  on  impact. What  we're  doing  in  this  figure  is  moving from  a  micro  sets  of  AB  and  C  of impact  to  individual  labor and  productivity  and  mapping  that onto  a  macroeconomic  effect,  okay? So  what  do  they  do  then is  they  take  it  to  data. And  as  I  said, they  test  on  166  countries, 1960-110  And  they  compare implicitly  What's  happening  here is  they  compare  a  country  to itself  in  years  when it's  exposed  to  a  warmer, cooler  than  average  temperatures. And  so  that's  like  looking within  a  specific  country. This  differs  to  other  approaches which  compares  output  across  countries. And  that  might  be  compounded for  lots  of  reasons,  right? Countries  are  very different  than  one  another. And  so  if  you're  comparing right  to  unlike  things, then  you're  probably  going to  have  confounded  results. They  focus  on  growth for  the  reason  that  I  said  in  the  top, but  also  because  they  want  to  difference  out these  constant  differences  between  countries. You  can  think  about  international  shocks  or policies  that  are  constant between  countries  that  they  want to  difference  out.  I  think  that  this  is A  strong  catch  all  here. Like  there  might  be  things  that are  affecting  countries  individually, at  different  points  in  time  that this  constant  difference  is  impacted,  right? Like  how  many  times  do  we have  international  shocks,  right? Or  international  policies, but  that's  what  they  do. Another  idea  that  I  had was  in  regards  to  this. Within  country,  warmer,  cooler,  right? So  when  you're  doing  that,  you are  not  comparing  two  different  countries. So  that's  a  good  thing. But  you're  missing  out on  like  within  time  differences.  All  right? And  so  there  might  be  a specific  year  that  the  country more  output  just because  it's  that  year,  right? So  when  you're  looking  within  countries themselves  for  hotter  and  cooler  years, might  be  missing  that  within time  variation  as  opposed to  comparing  cross  country  variation. So  an  idea  that  I  had  for  that is  instead  of  comparing like  one  country  to  another  country, you  can  create  some  synthetic  country. Right?  Where  you're  comparing against  maybe  like  a  weighted  average  of, of  a  country  to  make  them  and  match  up countries  that  you synthetically  create  a  comparison  to, your  country  that  you  are  estimating. That's  one  way  that  they  could change  their  empirical  specification. But  let's  see  what that  specific  empirical  specification  is. It  is  this  econometric  formula  here. So  what  this  is  is  this  delta Y  is  the  growth  rate for  country  in  year  t  as  a  function of  a  constant  alpha  plus this  beta  zero  times  T.  This  is temperature  in  country  seat and  the  temperature  squared  and  they  make a  big  deal  in  the  supplementary  materials about  each  country  needs  to follow  this  specific  formula of  temperature  and  temperature  squared. I  think  it's  a  relatively reasonable  assumption that  all  countries  follow this  to  make  some  concessions. But  yeah,  you  could  have  potentially a  third  term  or  something that  maybe different  countries  respond  to  temperature, then  they  do the  same  thing  for  precipitation, and  then  they  have  these  fixed  effects for  country  level  and  time  level, and  that's  these  elements  here. Another  thing  that  I  thought, well,  if  they're  looking  at  grows, and  that's  comparing  a  country plus  a  warmer  risk,  colder  year. These  country  fixed  effects which  are  meant  to  capture differences  in  a  country that  are  time  invariant. That  seems  like  that might  be  taken  away  from, that  might  be  captured  by the  change  in  the  growth. Instead  of  using  country  fixed  effects, I  thought  maybe  they  could  do  like a  region  fixed  effect interacting  with  a  time  effect. You  get  some  of  that. Regional  shocks  may  be  within our  supply  chains  and  so  forth over  a  specific  period  of  time  that might  pick  up  some  other  variation  as  well. But  then  they  also  have  this  time country  mixed  effect  which I  think  is  a  good  thing  to  have both  time  and  the  taxa  capture  aspects  of  me. This  is  the  empirical  specification. Then  here  are  the  results. And  notice  that  the  temperature  squared  term is  in  fact  significant. So  that's  a  good  thing,  right? They  want  to  make  this  non  linear  micro founded  idea  onto  this  macro  model. They  do  find  significance  on, on  the  temperature  squared  term. And  notice  that  it's  pretty  robust against  all  of  the  other  specifications which  I  thought  pretty good  that  was  so consistent  across  all of  their  specifications. And  then  they  do  some  heterogeneity based  on  ridge  versus  four  countries, and  the  results  are  significant. One  thing  I  noticed  about this  table  was  that  down  at  the  bottom, the  ridge  country  optimum and  poor  country  optimum  was 1,416.5  which  is  larger  than the  13  optimum  for the  base  line  specification. So  I  was  curious  about  how  that's  possible. They're  larger. This  is  the  undreeneityds. And  then  that's  powerful,  right? You  can  predict  an  impact  on GDP  from  some  impact  on  temperature. And  so  what  you  can  do  is  apply scenarios  scenarios  for future  temperature  and  precipitation, SSP  three  and  SSP  five, and  find  an  impact  on  GDP. Then  that  is  this  broader  application  of a  negative  23%  decrease, just  a  23%  decrease  in GDP  from  this  temperature  change  under this  scenario  that  was  from  the  deadlines, 23%  okay? And  then  they  find  that this  economic  production  is  smooth, non  linear,  and  concrete  temperature. And  so  that  is  the  figure here  showing  what  this  figure  is. Their  econometric  specification  evaluated at  all  of  these  temperatures. And  so  they  plot  average  temperatures for  various  countries. And  this  is  interesting,  right? And  you  can  see  a  potential  impact  on GDP  for your  country's  average  temperature,  right? So  I  guess  rich  countries  are  around the  optimum  core  countries are  potentially  suffering  more from  temperature  and  precipitation. And  then  underneath  that  is the  global  distribution  of population  GDP  and observed  temperatures  as  well. I  thought  that  was  pretty  interesting. And  then  on  the  right  hand  side, they  break  it  into  ridge  versus  more  and then  time  periods  and then  agricultural  and  non  agricultural  GDP. So  you  can  see  different  optimal  based  on those  different  types  of  subs. All  right,  what  is the  power  of  this  metric  model? Well,  we  can  forecast future  PEP  based  on  our  climate  scenarios. Again,  this  is  SSP  five  and  SP  three. And  you  can  see  lots  of different  patterns  that  can  be taken  from  differing  amounts of  incomes  today. Both  under  no  climate  change  scenario in  the  gray  and  then  climate change  scenario  in  the  red. There's  a  lot  of  variation. Especially  in  the  climate  change  scenario, it  seems  like  much  higher  ceilings. And  notice  the  scale  of these  graphs  is  not  linear. It's  like  a  log  scale where  the  further  you  go  up, the  more  drastic  the  increases  are. And  note  that  the  paths, just  because  you  start  at a  high  income  doesn't necessarily  mean  that  you  end  in  high  income. You  might  defacing, then  they  do  something similar  and  projects  this  damage  function. So  this  is  the  impact  on  GDP  of  temperature. And  you  can  see  that  hot  regions generally  tend  to  have  higher  decreases  GDP. Europe  increases  because  as professor  said  in  previous  lecture, they  are  starting  off  in  a  cool  environment, and  an  increase  in temperature  actually  increases their  productivity  the  other way  around  for  hotter  climates. And  you  can  see  from  the  math  there. Okay.  And  then,  so  if  you  aggregate  up  all of  those  different  subjects, you  get  this  overall  damage  function. And  this  was  interesting because  if  you  fit  a  line to  kind  of  this  overall  decrease overall  damage  over  time, it  doesn't  look  as non  linear  as  maybe  you  might  expect. And  I  think  in  the  reason  for  this  is because  of  this  panel  where a  lot  of  the  poor  regions of  the  globe  are really  suffering  from  climate  change, but  then  some  rich  areas might  not  suffer  much. So  that  breaks  up  an  average  on  the  impacts. And  that  is  panel broken  down  version  of  panel. And  similar  for  B, D,  D,  I  think  different. This  comparison  studies trying  to  model  the  same  thing. Okay,  so  as  a  recap, this  study  tries  to  reconcile the  difference  between  non linear  microeconomic  impacts, productivity  and  global  microeconomic  impacts and  non  linear  fashion. And  then  find  that  productivity  peaks  around 13  degrees  C.  And that  unmitigated  warming  would reduce  average  global  temperatures  by 23%  My  discussion  points  that I  went  through  during  slides.  Okay. Just  so  you  can  ask any  questions  of  those  very  cleverly. Thank  you. I  does,  but  it's  good. The  objection  peaks  around  30%  Is  it all  just  pick  it off  whether  into  the  art  part of  the  lower  part,  the  south. No,  So  that  was  the  aggregate,  right? So  this  this  13  degrees  C, average  temperature  being  the  optimum,  right? That's  kind  of  the  peak of  this  aggregate  curve. If  you  break  down  into  the  ridge  versus  four, that's  something  like  and then  different  time  periods  and then  agricultural  versus  agriculture  as  well. And  then  at  the  tables  there  was  also, you  can  look  at  different  optionals  based on  a  bridge  country  versus  a  book  option that  really  you  simply thought  it  was  a  pretty  reasonable  assumption that  everyone  is  responding  to. The  same  way  we  could  imagine  two  countries, both  say  equally  12  countries, low  income  countries. One  is  maybe  in country  ones  in  a  cultural  economy. Those  would  respond  totally  to. So  I'm  curious  why  you  Yeah. What's  your  motivation  for  saying that  you  give  them  a  pass? I  think  that  in  general,  right? I  think  your  point  about  if  you're  comparing a  very  strictly  economy dominated  by  a  particular  sector,  right? That  was  impact. I  think  when  you're  aggregating  up to  this  average  impact, I  think  some  of  that  cancels  out. So  like  sure,  like  each  country's  beta. If  you  were  to  break  this  specification into  different  types  of  countries, right, that  beta  might  be  completely  different. But  I  don't  see  much  of  a  difference between  one  country  is  mining  country, another  country  is  a  farming  country. America  has  both  mining  and  farming. And  so  that,  in  my  opinion, seems  to  be  a  reasonable  aggregation  for  it. As  a  way  of  capturing  the  average  truss. Right,  Right. But  obviously  this  paper was  still  come  to  terms  of, that  is  one  of the  most  papers  in  the  whole  field. And  part  B,  that's  because  it's, it  sort  of  made itself  very  available  for  anyone  to  go. I  looked  at  the  regressions, so  I  don't  know  if  this  is has  in  evidence  important. Yeah,  I  saw  that  there  was  something crazy  like  2,500 citations  and  not  just  Cole to  people  like  it's, it's  just  every  report on  the  large  suspensions incorporated  into  tons of  models  in  four  changes as  we  productive  at  the  end  of progressive  gopay  I  think. And  thank  you  for  bringing  this  up  question. So  a  lot  of the  econometric  techniques  that  people worry  about  like  limited  variable  bias and  endogeneity  like  y, x,  fx,  y,  but  then  Ylsxx. I  think  that  is  not  so much  of  a  problem  here because  we're  looking  at  weather, so  this  is  yearly  fluctuations  in temperature  and  that  seems  to  be  random. I  don't  know  if the  Internet  instrument  would  like. I,  I  don't  suspect so  much  bias  in  these  coefficients, but  maybe,  yeah,  there's, there  are  lots  of  things  to  be worried  about  whenever  you're  doing  used to  turn  and  other  variables, things  like  tincture  is very  spatially  correlated  and rainfall  is  super  store. Those  are  like  other  things you  have  to  worry  about but  mostly  they  concerns you actually include  the  main  figure in  your  next  slide  in  paper  and  one of  the  short  questions. Okay,  so  app  you're talking  about  all  of  these  different  outs. I  want  to  say  a  few  things about  where  we  get  this  information. Because  the  different  fields  in  different, which  is  one  of  the  main  areas  on, one  of  the  main  areas  that we  get  information  on climate  impacts  is  from  process  space  models. Process  space  models  are coming  out  of  certain  scientific  fields. They  tend  to  be incredibly  complicated  and  sophisticated. This  is  a  picture  of  I  think  it's  a, which  is  one  of  the  agricultural  models  and cultural  model  would  have  is  a  representation of  moisture  and  the  way that  the  roots  interact  with  it. And  the  representation  of the  growth  process  of  each  plant. And  actually  in  some  of  the  models, each  individual  leaf  would  be  modeled. In  most  of  the  models, the  general  process  of  stomata  in  leaves opening  closing  in  response  to different  conditions  would  be  considered. The,  all  the  key  processes in  the  biology  of  plant  are  represented. These  agriculture  models, with  geological  models, you  didn't  have  different features  of  surface  flow, attractions  with  soil attractions  underground. These  are  the  kinds  of  models that  you  could  use  anywhere, not  specifically  for  climate, because  they  just  describe the  features  of  the  relevant  geopical  system. But  these  are  only going  to  get  you  physical  risks. They're  only  going  to  tell  you what  happens  to  the, to  the  physical  system. And  you  have  to  give  them quite  a  bit  of  information in  order  for  them  to  do  that. These  models  will  assume that  you  can  provide  them  as  input. For  example,  for  couture, an  exact  schedule  of how  are  you're  going  to  irrigate  them, what  kind  of  fors  going  to  use, information  on  the  specific variety  you  want  to  use. When  it  talks  to  the  people  who make  these  models  and  point  out  other  models, often  we  say  five  years  ago lets  say  don't  do  very good  at  predicting  curve  results  yields. They  say  you're  using  them  on. The  way  that  you  have  to  use  one  of these  models  is  you  have  to go  to  a  particular  field and  collect  data  for  the  field, run  experiments  for  that  field, calibrate  the  multiple  field, and  then  the  model will  be  to  predict  the  field. But  that's  the  way that  net  scientists  approach. They,  they  want  to  capture  things  at an  incredibly  detailed  level that  isn't  a  hole to  the  kinds  of  global  responses that  often  we're  interested  in. But  if  you're  interested  what  to happen,  The  field, the  way  to  go,  if you  want  to  deal  with  a  broader  scale. This  is  where  the  stiscallse. There  are  a  bunch  of  different ways  to  do  that. Historically,  the  approach  that was  used  for  a  long  time  before, about  the  2010  was  cross  sectional  Russian. And  what  I  mean  by  that  is  you compare  a  hot  country  to  a  cold  country, see  how  they  respond, basically  see  how  they're  different. Then  say,  look,  we see  a  lot  of  hot  countries  are  quite  poor. Shouldn't  worry  that  as rich  countries  or  cooler  countries become  hot,  they'll  become  port. What  do  you  think  makes  sense? Economists  say  no. What's  the  problem  with  saying that  if  hot  countries  are  poor, then  as  you  come  up,  you'll  become  poor. That  is  a  concern.  Also  say the  country's  per  sure, right  There,  there  are  many  other, there  are  many  other  things you  could  be  concerned  about. But  like,  if  you  just  want  to  say, I  want  to  know,  I  want  to know  how  bad  it's  going  to  be  so  I  know how  much  money  it  should  spend  to  stop  it. It's  kind  of  mission. Yeah.  The  countries  are  different. And  saying  that  suddenly  because  you have  a  signature  as  a  different  country, you're  going  to  become  like  them, sort  of  silly. And  so  that  is no  longer  credible  though a  lot  of  people  still  Jewish. Um,  but  the  direction  that  most  of the  front  here  is called  is  panel,  comet  models. Panel  here  means  that  we  have  many, many  observations  of each  unit  that  we  observing. In  the  case  of  the  Burke  at  All  paper, we  have  that  50  observations of  each  country  that allows  us  to  compare  countries  to  themselves whether  that's  to  be  useful. This  approach  avoids  the  problem of  just  dealing  with  individual  fields. That  if  we  have  data  on  whole  countries, then  we  can  produce models  of  how  whole  countries  respond. Or  similarly,  data  on, let's  say,  the  productivity  of the  food  system,  right? You  can  ignore  the  fact  that underneath  your  definition  of food  system,  there  are  different  crops. Different  farmers  make  different  decisions  as long  as  you  choose your  scale  at,  at  the  level, bit  of  your  data  is  described 20  thing  here  is  that  when  you, when  you  use  statistical  methods, there  are  lots  of  things  that  are captured  in  the  data that  might  be  different  from what  the  process  models  were  described. For  example,  comparing agriculture  process  models and  statistical  models  of  agriculture. Both  of  them  will  give you  the  same  kind  of values  and  produce  the  same  kind  of  maps, can  be  project  to  produce  information. They'll  both  tell  you  losses  in  act. Process  based  models  will tell  you  yield  losses assuming  a  particular  approach. Maybe  the  formative  approach  maybe  not. But  they'll  assume  that they  know  what  the  farmer  is going  to  do  and  impose  that  on  the  bottle. They  have  to  do  that.  The  specifical  approach isn't  going  to  usually  have  any from  management  nor  even  any  variables  to describe  how  that  might  change because  it's  going  to  instead  say, well, whatever  decisions  the  farmers  are  making, how  are  they're  currently  responding to  changes  in  weather? I'm  going  to  assume  that that's  in  the  system.  It's  a  black  box. But  that  black  box  is  quite  a  smart  black  box because  it's  as  smart  as farmers  have  been  doing. As  smart  as  farmers  current  beat. So  the  descriptions  of  risks, but  with  human  intervention,  there's, there's  a  level  of additional  level  in  the  case of  say,  labor  protection. We're  looking  at  briefly,  a  show, graph  of  these  experiments on  military  people  for  tests. So  that's,  that's  good  data for  a  process  Basel, because  that  is  completely controlled  and you  know  everything  that's  going  on. Alternatively,  any  econometrician would  take  data  on, say,  total  productivity  coming out  of  a  particular  sector. And  that  information  is  going  to  be  shown all  the  ways  that  people naturally  change  the  behavior when  it's  hot  outside. When  it's  wet  outside,  they're  going  to, that  is  if  it's,  if it's  particularly  bad  side, maybe  they'll  continue  to  work  from  home. And  so  they  have adaptation  options  that  are available  with  mortality. You  have  the  ability  to  try  on  air  condition. And  so  the  mortality that  you  would  get in  the  controlled  experiments we  just  blast, people  will  heat  until  they  die  is different  from  the  one  that  toy  they  get in  fiscal  models  because people  don't  just  sit  there  and let  themselves  get  lust  experiments or  less  people. That's  why  I  had  to,  I  was  originally, I  kept  going  to  point  to this  mortality,  the  mortality  figures. And  then  we  didn't  have  to  give  you a  labor  productivity  example because  you  can  possible  keeps  productive, you  can't  possibly  keeping that  result,  people  die. Yeah.  So  as  I  was, as  I  was  explaining, I  had  to  change  tax. I  mean,  just  read  about  early  aly,  the, the  behavioral  economists  from  Israel  who reinvigorated  the  whole  approach to  sociological  experiments  where you  let  people  shock  each  other. So  it  was  also can't  state  that,  but  thank  you. Maybe,  maybe  we'll  get  to  the  point. Okay,  so  we've  been, so  what  does  this  look  like  there? Even  with  sadistical  methods, there  are  different  ways  you  can approach  evaluating  versus  impact. And  I'm  going  to,  I'm  going  to  give a  few  slides  of  Yo  metrics. Basically,  option  one  for estimate  mortality  risks  in  particular, would  be  to  look  at  death  certificates and  find  those  death  certificates that  record  as  the  cause  of  death. One  of  the  heat  related  cause  of death,  heat,  heat,  stress. You  sort  of,  you  click those  that  are  heat  related  deaths  and  you relate  them  to extreme  temperatures  and  you'll find  a  nice  relationship, it's  ph,  but  it  will  be, will  be  a  simple  relationship  that, that  relates  those  to,  that's, that's  part  of  the  mortality  picture, but  it's  not  the  whole  mortality  picture. Because  there  are  other  ways  in which  high  temperatures  cause  people  to  die. For  example,  you  could, we're  talking  about  violence, increasing  violent  crime  on  Tuesday. And  so  you  could  say,  well, what  if  higher  temperatures cause  there  would  be  more  violent  crime, which  then  those  that  calls  people? Well,  that  will  also result  in  higher  mortality  in  the  future, so  we  should  probably  include  that  in our  collection  of  deaths  to  consider. The  alternative  would  be  to  look  at  all, all  deaths  because  they're going  to  be  the  deaths  that are  not  specifically  related but  end  up  being  correlated  with. Then  you  have  to  have  to  do something  smart  to  make sure  that  just  because it  is  correlated  with  heat, you're  not  capturing  things that  aren't  actually  caused  by  the  heat. That's,  that's  the  trick  here. We  know  what  the  cause  was  because was  written  down  on  the  form, it  was  heat  here  we  want  to  make  sure, for  example,  that  we don't  assume  that  people  who are  dying  in  hot  areas  are  necessarily  die because  of  the  heat. A  lot  of  the  South  of the  US  is  hot  and  it's  also  poor. Maybe  people  dying  because  they're  por, so  the  kind  of data  that  we're  thinking  about  is  panel  data. Two  locations  here,  patient  location  B, and  I'm  going  to  talk  about this  general  temperature  here  and  here. And  so  each  of  these  observations is  let's  say  a  particular  year, and  we're  looking  at  what happens  in  that  year. The  cross  sectional  approach would  be  to  say,  okay, let's  just  take  the  average of  what's  happening  in each  of  these  locations. Past  model  that  relates  to two  locations  and  we're  done. And  we  say,  look, tempture  causes  the  outcome  to  fall. Of  course,  you  know,  that's, that's  confounded by  a  whole  bunch  of  things,  right? The  difference  between  those  is  a  difference. It's  also  a  difference  in  income raise  education,  other  things. So  these  locations  and  locations you  consider  are  inherently  different. And  it's  not  clear which  of  those  differences  are  going to  be  drive  any of  the  things  that  you're  concerned  about. There's,  there's  omitted  variable  bias, there's  omitted  variables in  yours  relationship. And  the  list  of potential  omitted  variables  is  basically unless  the  alternative  approach from  to  metrics  is  to  say, okay,  we've  got  lots  of different  observations  for each  of  these  locations and  we  can  compare  within  location  and estimate  how  each  location individually  responds to  those  higher  temperatures. There's  still  more  slide  here. They're  still  offset. We'll  have  to  deal  with  that  in  a  moment. But  if  we  know  what  this  curve  is, then  we  can  say  what's  going  to happen  to  you  in  the  future. All  we  need  to  do  is  red. Could  also  be  that these  curves  are  not  the  same  slope. There  are  also  reasons  why that  they  might  have  slopes. One  of  the  reasons  they  might  have  slopes, you  might  be  correlated  with  them  having higher  temperatures  cause  adaptation. Anyone  interpret  the  slightly, why  would  this  be costly  adaptation  like  if the  country  does  not  have  the  infrastructure, like  the  funds  to like  build  a  secret,  things  like  that, it  may  be  a  burden  for  them  to  install that  infrastructure  so  they can  do  it  in  all  locations. Maybe  Si  that  would  like  lessen  that. I  mean,  we're  seeing  these lessened  outcomes  the  way, the  way  we  usually  thought  is that  locations  are  already  adapted to  their,  their  climate. But  they  might  be,  that's a  that's  position  assumption. So  I  think  you're  right  that  it  might be  there  are  nally limitations  that  aren't being  fully  acted  here. Well,  let's,  let's  assume  that  they  are already  adapted  to  their  Pm. Now  we  see  that  one  location has  strong  response  and another  location  has  this  weak  response. What  is  the,  is  the  effective  application? That's  going  to  be  just the  fact  that  it's  cut  off this  weaker  response  somehow. These  hot  people,  they've  adapted themselves  so  that  when  they experience  hot  day,  it  doesn't  turn  so  bad. All  right? People  a  lot,  these people  doesn't  hurt  so  bad. So  there's,  there's  definitely an  adaptive  response  that  there's, at  the  same  time,  there's, there,  there's  a  level  of  difference  here. And  I've  said  before, level  difference  would be  because  of  anything. But  if  we  do  a  little  more  sisal  work, if  we,  if  we  dig  into the  level  difference  again, one  possible  reason  and one  reason  that  they  can  consist  distinguish is  that  that  is  strongly  related to  the  temperatures  that that  region  has  been  experiencing,  right? So  there's,  there's  both  the  effect  how the  locations  respond  to  changes in  temperature  and  how  they  respond to  average  temperature  and the  response  to  average  teture  might  be  that this  comes  down  and  files  as. And  that's  what  we  see  here. The  overall  outcome  was,  is  lower  here. Is  here  good  else. The  overall  outcome  is, starts  from a  different  level  and  it's  flatter. So  you  have  coins  just  a  different  level, and  you  have  the  adaptiveness  flatter. And  the  last  thing  that  we  can  do is  actually  produce  curves that  span  a  whole  range  of  temperatures. They  are  overlapping  between the  different  locations. Location  A  tells  us  a  lot  about  cooler  temes, location  B  tells  us  about water  temperatures  between  the  two  of  them. We  can  start  to  see  some  kind  of non  linear  relationship  that applies  maybe  to  all  locations. This  is  despite  the  fact  that  we have  all  these  differences  between  them. But  those  differences  might  not  be driving  changes  in  this  curve  ever  might have  the  curve  as  we  have  with  prins  paper, it's  just  that  these  things change  where  they  are. These  are  two  different  possibilities that  actually  don't  sit  fairygether. One  is  the  possibility  of  cost  application. We  think  different,  different  countries might  not  have  the  same  curve and  that  the  level  matters. And  the  other  one,  where different  countries  have the  same  curve,  but  the  level  doesn't  matter. A  lot  of  the  back  and  forth that's  happening  right  now  is trying  to  go  from  this, which  we  know  how  to  do  very  well, mapping  up  these  curves, assuming  that  everyone's  the  same, and  we  feel  very  comfortable with  the  way  that we  dealt  with  all  these  unobserved  variables. But  we  don't  get  to  think  about adaptation  at  all  to  this, which  is  great  for  certain  about  adaptation. But  loses  a  lot  of that  power  of  the  differences  between, between  locations. So  there's  no, there's  some  methods  out  there that  try  to  combine  these. I  don't  think  anyone  is  completely  happy with  what  we  have  available  to  us. Yes,  so  this  thing  here, this  is  a  just  response, Keep  using  this  term, just  result  curve,  but that  it  sort  of  comes from  epidemiology  or  something. You  have  a  particular chemical  or  something  and  you get  one  dose  and you  see  the  response  of  the  system, of  the  organism,  that  chemical. And  so  if  in  this  case  the  dose is  going  to  be  something  like a  daily  temperature  or  an  annual  tempature, let's  say  an  temperature, that  dose  gives  you  a  response of  something  that  it's  a  dose. Because  actually,  if  people  don't just  split  for  one  year,  right? You're  going  to  have  a  bunch of  different  years  over  time. It  makes  a  little  more  sense. We  talk  about  this  curve, which  is  one  of  the  curves I  showed  you  on  Tuesday. This  is  more,  Tony,  for  older  people, 65  plus  in  response to  this  is  daily  temperature. So  these  numbers, mortality  rate  change,  they're  tiny,  right? So  it's  times  since  the  negre  four, so,  but  they're  tiny because  each  dose  is  one  day. So  if  you  get a  bunch  of  days  that  are  20  degrees  C, let's  see  how  many  you  need  to  get. So  this  is  about  negative two  times  4%  change. Let's  say  you  get  100  of  those, so  that  would  be  a 0.02%  difference in  your  mortality  rate  decrease from  having  those  nice  days. If  you  here  at  say  35  degrees, let's  say  that's  1084, that's  ten  times  to  Ngo, one  times  the  Nig  three. So  you  have  100  days  of  that and  your  mortality  rate  increases  by 0.4%  So  that's  why  it's  o  hundred  days. That  isn't  actually  the  discussion  I  want  to have  with  you  about  how  to  read  this  graph. Who  can  tell  me  why  the  graph  at zero  0%  change  also has  no  uncertainty  perfectly, no  one  point  on  that  graph. Why  is  that  the  reference to  exactly  everything  is compared  to  that  point. Which  means  that  the  way  to  read this  graph  before  you  just  just, there's  a,  there's  a, how  do  you  use  this  graph? And  there's,  there's  how  to  read  it. The  way  to  read  it  is  say these  are  the  effect  of  temperatures relative  to  the  effect  of  being at  a  temperature  of  13  degrees  C. This  is  converted  from, from  parenth  is  why numbers  come  out  a  little  bit  from, let's,  let's  call  it  13  degrees  C. So  if  you  have  a  day  of  30,  33c, then  your  effect  is the  same  as  whatever  the  effect is  of  a  day  of  33  C. We  don't  actually  know  what  that  effect  is. We  lost  the  information  when we  used  this  panel  approach. We're  we  don't,  we're saying  we  don't  know why  locations  are  different. The  moment  that  we  say that  we  lose  information  about the  baseline  rate  of mortality  or  what  we're  looking  at, here  we  are,  and your  baseline  rate  is  just  whatever you  get  at  33. But  now  we  talk  about  how  that  baseline  rate, whatever  it  is,  will change  for  different  locations. But  will  change,  we  claim,  in  the  same  way, if  you  get  a  19  degrees  C  date, then  your  mortality  rate  will  be  lower. That's  the  intertationtuntri most  locations  don't  actually, the  baseline  temperature  isn't  the  degree  or might  be  silly  to  talk  about what's  going  on  in  optular  country. If  it's  average  temps  way  over  here, what  are  we  comparing  it  to? The  surfalt. The  power  of  these  curves is  that  you  can  redefine  a  reference any  way  you  like  because everything  always  has to  be  compared  relative to  some  other  point  of  the  curve. How  do  we  do  that? If  we  want  to  ask  what's  the  effect of  a  35  degree  day relative  to  a  30  degree  day? That's  easy.  We  just  look at  the  difference  between  those. All  right,  What's  the  effect  of 35  degree  day,  20  degree  day? We  just  look  at  the  difference  between  those. Why  would  you  want  to  do  that? Well,  if  you  want  to,  if  you  want  to project  a  particular  region, some  location  out  into  the  future, you  say,  okay,  you  started at  some  point  on  this  graph. So  you  started  here,  your  average  temperature was  a  little  more  than  zero  degree, and  then  you  started  to  warm  up. As  a  warm  up, your  mortality  rate  started  to  fall. The  fact  that  you're  above  this  line  doesn't matter  at  all  to the  discussion  I'm  giving  you. Because  we  just  redefined the  baseline  up  here. You're  relative  to  where  you  started. Your  margin  rate  is  down  negative. The  change  in  matty  is negative  and  keeps  being  more,  more  negative. And  you  keep  saving  more  and  more  lives  up until  over  here  where  the  sanctions  of  lives. But  you're  not  getting more  additional  life  stages as  you  got  high  temperatures  and then  you  start  going  up  here. Until  at  this  point the  fact  that  we  hunt  all  the  way  down here  and  then  came  back  up  to the  other  side  again,  doesn't  matter. What  matters  is  that  we  are comparing  to  a  temperature  of  zero. And  then  we  got  to  T  35, so  we  got  this  additional  projects. That's  the  way  to  think  about  this. They're  always  relative  and they  have  to  be  relative  because  we don't  know  what  the  baseline of  a  location  is. The  place  in  to  where  I  include  the  burk  at all  curve  is  to  ask  you  to basically  do  that  process for  countries  in  the  curve. What  is  the  change in  growth  rate  of  the  curve  section? That  all  that  sort  of  dose  response  occurs. One  oh  one  dose  response. Ours,  true  one  is  where  a  given, a  given  effect  has consequences  for  multiple  time  periods. So  let's  say  that  and  B, these  are  three  from the  carton  and  int  paper  A. B  are  the  data  that  you  observed. A  weather  events  is  some  outcome. Let's  say  it's  agricultural  fuels. There's  some  underlying  baseline  improvement in  agricultural  years. Actually,  agricultural  yields  have  been growing  exponentially  since  about the  degree  of  revolution. We  see  this  bizarre  relationship,  right? They  fluctuated  around  in  a  non  intuitive, but  all  you  need  to  do is  a  clever  regression,  not  one  that, that  I'll  show  you  in let  two  but  not  a  very  complicated  one. And  you  can  get  out  the  effect  of  one  event as  I  think  that's divorced  from  both  time  and  space,  right? Anytime  you  happen  to  get  an event  wherever  you  are, it's  going  to  reduce your  baseline  first  and then  your  baseline  is  going  to  recovered. That's,  that's  what  the  curve  says. And  if  you  were  to  then  add  up  a  bunch of  these  curves  according  to this  particular  pattern  of  events, you'll  exactly  recover  this. So  that's  the  way  that  the  statistics works  pole. We  now  know  how  we  can  find  out how  an  outcome  responds  in  time  for  dynamics. But  there's  another  twist,  the  story. I'm  going,  I'm  going  to  walk  you through  these  and  then I'll  show  you  the  next  two  graphs. Paper  up  here  is  simulated  climate  one, which  is  current  climate  moderate. Things  haven't  come  yet, simulate  climate  two  are  more  extremes. When  you  add  up  all  simulate  climate  one, you  end  up  with  a single  one  of  these  blue  lines. A  single  one  of  those  blue  lines is  for  a  given  simulated  climate, what  you're  actually  seeing  here  is a  whole  car  level  of a  bunch  of  different  simulated  climates all  over  later  to  each  other. Why  would  you  do  that? That  so  you  can  then  come out  with  distributions  of  sort. That's  what  I  tell  you,  that  with this  particular  kind  of response  where  you  have immune  effects  and  then a  gradual  recovery  over time  over  an  average of  two  different  climates, you'll  get  a  fairly  significant  effect from  higher  extremes  are interest,  you're  thinking  yourselves. Why  wouldn't  you  get  effect  part  interest. You  show  me  there  was  an  effect. Well,  let  me  show  you  the  pieces  of  evidence. So  this  is  a  different  way  that our  initial  data  could  have looked  for  that  same  set  of  extremes. Here  then  is the  dose  response  curve  that  comes  out  of  it. And  then  we  apply  the  simulated  climates, a  more  moderate  one  and  more  extreme  one. And  the  result  is  that  the two  distributions  on average  overlap  with this  kind  of  just  response. You  wouldn't  have  any  effect  of more  extreme  climate  except that  it's  more  variability. You  haven't  moved  the  Met  at  all. For  this  one,  where  the  dose  response  curve is  this  persistent  shift, you  end  up  with  completely divergent  outcomes. Stay  in  your  modern  climate,  your  way  here, as  every  time  you  get hit  by  your  higher  extremes, you  get  further  away  from  the  ester. That  is  actually  the  story of  what  happened  after  the  Burgdylaper. The  Burgdol  paper  comes out  with  this  honestly,  enormous  effect. 23%  loss  is  already  huge. 75%  loss across  the  poorest  half  of  the  world. It's  crazy,  but  it  might  be  true, but  they  make a  crucial  assumption  in  producing  benefit. They  assume  that  they've got  a  dynamic  curve  that  looks  like  this, rather  than  say  one  that  looks  like  that. But  does  that  mean  they assume  that  after  you've  been  hit by  a  tempature  shock  hire  100  year, your  growth  rate  is  lower  and  so then  you're  permanently  on  a  lower, your  permanently  poorer  than  would  have  been. Your  growth  rate  might go  back  up  to  where  it  was. You  might  that  shock may  only  happened  in  one  year. And  then  all  of  your  growths  are  the  same. But  you're  now,  we're  going, we're  going,  and  now you  got  hit  by a  shock  and  you're  going  up  that. And  you're  always  going  to  be, imagine  now  that  instead  you keep  hit  by,  hit  by  sharks. And  this  is  where  you  can  get a  75%  loss  income. It's  relative  to  how  rich  countries would  have  been  if they  could've  kept  growing. But  instead  they  kept,  and  there's some  evidence  in  the  information  at all  for  why  they  make  this  assumption. But  ultimately  it's  an  assumption, we  don't  know  what  the  truth  is. We  don't  know  if  GDP  shocks  of  the  form  of the  showing  Esme  are more  like  this  or  more  like  that. And  what  does  those  mean? Terms  that  are  a  little  bit  more  regnizable. There's  evidence  from  individual  disasters in  the  field  of  disaster  studies that  you  can  have a  disaster  hit  you  and then  actually  become  better  off. Creative  destruction,  you  rebuild  better. Crest  as  fine. Here  is  actually  as  soon  as  you  get  hit then  you've  just  sort  of gotten  rid  of  a  whole  bunch of  stuff  that  you  didn't  need, and  you're  earning  better position  more  frequently. Bill  back  better,  which  is basically  something like  the  London  Fire 16  66  Service  Chicago  Fire,  Right. It's  there  was  a  bunch  of  old  stuff, article  stuff,  and  when you  got  stuff  you're  better. Recovery  to  trend  is basically  a  slightly  longer  version of  this  or  this. It  says  the  star  gets you  but  you  come  back  to  where  you  were. No  recovery  is  what  you get  when  you  have  and  your  prevent leaf  or  we  don't  know which  of  these  and they  produce  completely  different  results. If  you  take  the  mark  at all  response  and  you  say,  okay,  I'm  going  to, I'm  totally  going  to  believe the  growth rate  effects  that  you're  describing, but  I'm  going  to  assume  that  after  one  year that  you're  sort  of  back at  your  baseline  and  you  only  get  down  again. If  you  get  another  impact, then  by  the  end  of  the  century, the  world's  about  1%  four  a  little  bit, it's  like  a  fraction  of  percent  four. If  you  said  you keep  having  these  effects,  be  persistent, then  you  get  the  23% of  this is  already  talking  about  risks. But  let  me  have  to  actually tell  you  how  we  go  from  the  scores, shutdown  risks,  That's  what this  triggers  about,  seen  this  before. This  is  going  from  hazards to  exposure  to  vulnerability. At  least  as  a, as  one  way  to  think  about the  step  from  the  school  to  economic  risks. The  way  that  Hallet, the  author  of  this  bank  report, described  it,  there's  a, there's  next  step  which is  socio  economic  resilience. Socio  economic  resilience  is  how  much  do those  assets  matter  to  your  welfare? This  is  George  W  Bush  saying, I'm  going  to  Louisiana saying  you're  so  lucky  that  you're  poor, because  if  you've  been  rich  you would  lost  so  much  more. Well,  to  the  difference  There  is obviously  those  poor  people didn't  matter  to  them  that  they  were  flooded. Whereas  if,  if  George  W or  Trump  got  to one  of  their  properties  flooded, we  have  no  particular  impact. They  are  very  socio  economically  resilience. In  the  terms  of this  holiday  paper  that's  quite  useful, conceptually  defines  how  this  thing, socio  economic  resilience,  relates asset  losses  in  your  infrastructure, your  capital  to  welfare  losses. It's  useful  in  distinguishing what  I'm  going  to  call  valuation. The  applying  of  economic  value something  from  welfare  when we  end  up  completing  those  two  is  actually particularly  useful  for  actually  be able  to  calculate  economic  risks. Because  you  have  to  already  know  what the  welfare  loss  was  in  order  to calculate  what  resilience  is. That's  actually  what these  equations  show  you. It's  like,  okay,  you  got losses  and  you  divide  b  losses, and  that  gives  you  socionomic  resilience. It's  great,  but  what  if  I want  to  find  out  what  the  welfare  loss  was? To  do  something  else, I'm  going  to  try  to  break this  down  in  a  couple  of different  slides  of  coverage  conjections. Suppose  we  have  a  biophysical  impact, say  a  yield  loss. Just  defining  our  economic  risks. The  economic  impact  is the  lost  society  of  the  biophysical  impact. Loss  of  society  is  a  little  bit of  a  weird  phrasing. I,  I'm  trying  to  be  broad because  economic  impacts  are meant  to  be  all  inclusive  in  that  way. But  you  can  imagine  that as  a  result  of  an  agricultural  yield  loss, maybe  farm  is  going  to be  poor  people  who  want to  eat  that  food  are  going  to  have to  get  other  food which  may  be  more  expensive. There's  going  to  be  a  lot  of  different  pieces of  loss  to  society. In  fact,  in  many  cases  for  the  US, we  expect  that  climate  change is  not  particularly  going to  make  farmers  poorer, even  though  it's  going  to  make  worse  off because  other  regions  of the  globe  are  going  to  be  hit  harder by  climate  change  than  we  are. As  a  result,  when farmers  in  the  US  get  hit  by  climate  change, their  prices  are  going  to  go  up  on  average. As  they  get  hit,  the  prices  are going  to  go  up  and  they're  going to  be  getting  just  as  much  money for  their  less  produce, but  it's  going  to  be  the  loss  of  society. So  the  pass  draw. But  I'm  just  going  to call  it  loss  of  society. A  key  step  in  figuring  out  what  this  loss  of society  is,  is  valuation. Do  you  have  an  impact?  Deltat  is  a  delta. There  are  different  ways of  defining  this  function. If  it's  something  like we're  talking  about  asset  losses and  we  know  what  the value  as  we,  that's  great. We  just  multiply  the  price  of those  assets  times  the  amount  that's  lost. And  we're,  that  is one  definition  of  an  economic  loss. It's  not  a  bad  definition  of  economic  loss, but  it's  the  asset  valuation definition  of  economic  loss. And  we  just  said that's  missing  the  whole  piece. Social  economic  presents, so  the  next  approach of  different  pieces  here, but  I'm  trying  to  sort of  distill  a  bit  is  to  say, okay,  rather  than  assets, we  want  to  value  loss  of  welfare. Well,  to  give  you  a  not  so  useful, quantitatively  useful, hopefully  conceptually, virtue  that  we're  going  to  try  to  figure out  how  much  money  someone would  have  needed  to  lose  in  order  to  have the  same  loss  and  welfare that  particular  loss  produced. This,  sayfiation,  utility  of someone  is  going  to be  a  combination  of  two  things. People  are  going  to  utility  from having  money.  This  says  consumption. I'm  going  to  explain  the  CP  just moment,  this  piece  of  consumption. And  this  piece  is the  other  thing  that  got  impacted. Both  of  them  are  important  to  our  welfare. The  way  that  the  thing  that  we  actually experience  is  we  get the  utility  of  having  the exception  that  we  were  going  to  have. Plus  we  got  the  impact  something  about  loss. We  want  to  find  out what  would  be  the  utility that  you  get  from  being, having  less  consumption  but  no  impact. Why  is  that  useful?  It  makes  it  so  that we  can  turn  these  in  dollar  terms. You  can  say  go  from  saying,  okay, I've  lost  30%  of my  yield  useful  but not  something  compared  to  anything  else. And  turn  it,  just  say that's  equivalent  to  if  I had  become  2%  porosity. So  that's  what's  called  equivalent  variation. What  loss  of  money  is  equivalent  to  account. I'll  take  more  into  what  that  looks  like  in a  few  different  sectors  after I  do  so  coding  with  you  guys  on  Tuesday. Yeah,  beginning. Yeah.  Yeah.  So.
