Good  to  answer  the  questions for  the  question  that I  hope  you  can  hear  us. It's  not  coming  from  my  computer. So  you  can  also so  we  certif  physical  risks  on  Thursday  the. So  I'm  going  to  want  to  give  you some  overview  at  this  point. You  have  read  a  lot, a  better  review  than  I  could  give from  if  you  read the  Carson  Me  and  Song  cheaper. But  I'm  going  to  pull  out  some  things and  try  to  synthesize it  a  slightly  different  way. Talk  about  a  few  features of  how  we  know  these  things, and  then  actually  get  into some  general  discussion  of  where  we  get the  evidence  for  what the  impacts  of  climate  change  are. On  Thursday,  we're  doing  economic  impacts. I  I  switch  things  around  a  little  bit. There  are  a  couple  of  things to  point  out  and  how  such  things  are. First  is  that  I'm  I'm  doing economic  risks  after  we hear  the  Burkll  paper  resention  from  Frank. So  we're  going  to  I'm trying  to  get  all  of  the  physical  risk stuff  day  so  then  we  can do  economic  risks,  risks  on  Thursday. Part  of  that  is  a  little  bit  out  of  line  with the  way  the  total  the  book goes  through,  the  state  stuff. The  to  book  also does  physical  risks  and  then  economic  risks, but  they  include  adaptation as  part  of  physical  risks. I  think  that  it  makes  a  little more  sense  to  think about  adaptation in  a  broader  economic  context, Bunking  it  in  with  T  the  class. So  if  you're, if  you're  following  those  readings, there's,  I  I  gone  from  chapter  six  last  week. Chapter  five  this  week. Because  of  where  ation  all  this  Yeah. Lab  What  is  to  Thursday? Lab  will  be  assigned  on  Thursday. I  got  a  question from  Gs  and  tickets  about  why  the SSP's  don't include  any  information  about  loss  damage, information  about  actual  any climate  impacts  at  all. And  it  ends  up being  pretty  convenient  that  they don't  because  that  means  that  there's  a, there's  a  nice  distinction between  the  scenarios that  you  use  to  understand  croule, then  the  impacts  you can  layer  on  top  of  those. There's,  as  these  things  continue to  become  more  intertwined  in  the  doses, it's  not  going  to  be  clear  what's included  in  the  scenario  that  you're  then trying  to evaluate  additional  impacts  on  top  of the  reason  why  they're  not included  is  actually  pretty  historical. There  were  three  different  groups of  people  who  went  out  into the  wilderness  and  tried  to  understand the  future  of  climate. One,  perhaps  the  most well  funded  and  most  developed  group after  the  Climate  Modelers or  the  Energy  System  Modelers. Energy  system  modelers  develop sophisticated  models of  the  ways  that  different  kinds of  energy  means, that  is,  end  uses  can  be satisfied  by  different  types  of technologies  which  then need  to  be  supported  by different  types  of  energy  production  systems. The  whole  thing  is  put  into this  context  of  optimization, which  makes  it  a  little  bit  difficult to  then  feed  in  impacts. Because  why  don't  you  just  avoid  the  impacts? Um,  because  the  optimization that  the  energy  system  walls  set  up, it's  perfect  for  knowledge  optimization. And  they  say,  okay,  I  want to  create  the  ideal  energy  system. What  will  that  look  like? And  how  cheap  can  I  make  it? It's  really  useful  if you  want  to,  for  example, for  policymakers  and  recognitions of  what  they  should  do,  their  energy  systems. But  there's  been  for  a  long, long  time,  no  attempt  to  put  impacts, that  is  the  losses associated  with  these  things into  the  energy  system  models, because  they  don't  fit into  that  optimization  framework. They're  also  going  to  be  a  bit  of  a  problem when  you  think  about  these  scenarios. At  the  same  time  as the  Engineers  en  Energy  Engineers  models, you  have  natural  scientists  who are  developing  biophysical  models. This  is  where  we  get  our  me  information about  physical  imac. Biophysical  models  are  process  based  models. They  describe  what  shifts  between different  pieces  of  system and  the  simulate  things  forward. I'll  show  an  example  that  in  the  end. But  they  stop  at the  point  where  the  natural  scientists, they  stop  at  the changes  in  the  physical  system. And  then  you  have  economic  models, which  for  a  long  time  were dominated  by  the integrated  assessment  models. These  models  that  combine  climate, energy  systems  and  damages  altogether, so  they're  comprehensive, but  incredibly  simplified. Economists  tend  to  not  want  to  interface with  me  complications  of the  engineers  or  the  natural  scientists. It's  I  think, a  real  loss  and narrow  challenge  to  try  to bring  these  different  groups  together. But  that's  why  we  end  up with  these  SSP's  which  are  coming from  the  system  models  that  have no  connection  to  either  natural  science or  Al  economics. Okay,  so  we  talked  about  this  last  time. The  way  that  the  IPCC  describes physical  impacts  is  that  you  have a  physical  risk  which  is  a  hazard, times  of  exposure,  times  of  vulnerability. A  couple  of  these  things  then diagrams  that  show those  three  coming  together, just  to  complicate  that  a  little  bit  more, you  can  think  of  hazard  exposure producing  a  kind  of  risk. And  in  fact,  a  lot  of the  information  that's  out  there  on physical  risks  isn't  actually engaging  with  vulnerability  or  anything  else. It's  only  talking  about where  people  will  be  and  what  kind  of, whether  it  sues  the  in  hazard  risk just  from  meeting  with  two  of  those. And  then  you  can  add  in  vulnerability and  you  can  talk  about  what the  immediate  physical  impact  is of  some  event  or  some  hazard. But  that  immediate  impact is  a  part  of  the  story. And  we  want  to  also  think  about adapt  to  capacity  to  understand  it. So  I'm  trying  to  try  to  lay out  a  few  of  these, these  terms  and  how  they  would  interact. But  there  are  also  some  very  odd  points  of terminology  in  the  space that  I  should  call  out. One  is  used  the  term  physical  risks. By  physical,  it's  what I  mean  is  related  to  the  system  itself. Changes  in  the  system,  not changes  in  the  economic  outcomes. So  physical  risks  is distinguished  from  economic  risks, it's  covered  from  the  physical  sciences. This  da  of  risk  is actually  a  bit  of  a  misnomer, Although  whenever economists  come  into  this  area, we  really  want  to  engage  creatively  with the  uncertainty that's  associated  with  all  these  things. Traditionally,  when people  have  been  talking  about  risks, they've  actually  just  been  talking about  the  outcomes  of a  particular  policy  scenario. They've  been  saying,  look, you  have  this  risk  of  ending up  with  higher  mortality, lower  crop  fields,  et  cetera,  et  cetera. If  you  don't  date,  well  first, it's  not  clear  that  that's  exactly  a  risk, the  way  that  most  economic  studies would  treat  that  that's  a  policy  choice, whether  we  choose  to  mitigate  or  not. Not  some  sort  of  stochastic  process. Remember  it's  biophysical  modelers, we're  coming  up  with  physical  risks. And  Bips  modelers  traditionally don't  care  that  much  about  uncertainty. Most  of  the  models  are  not  stochastic. They  don't  understand the  underlying  social  process. They  see  policy  decision as  a  question  mark,  with  uncertainty. For  them,  it  makes  sense  to talk  about  as  a  risk  for  us. I  think  there's  more  nuance  and  question. But  the  point  of terminology  is  when  I  say  physical  risk, often  I  will  be  talking  about an  essential  search  and heat  under  a  given  policy  scenario. That  makes  sense. Vulnerability  is  a  term  that  is  super defined  since  it's  the  third  part of  the  tripod  that  the  ICC  lays out  and  really  complicated  one, people  throw  in  or forget  to  throw  in  all sorts  of  different  things. Sometimes  included,  sometimes include  almost  nothing. Sometimes  it  will  be the  linkage  between  physical risks  to  economic  risks. That  is  the  valuation of  the  things  that  happen sometimes  when  so  it  is distinguished  from  sensitivity,  that  is  okay. You  got  a  hazards  system  that's  there, so  it's  a  pro  exposure  as  well. Sensitivity  would  then  be, does  the  system  change is  affected  by  the  thing, By  the  hazard  versus  vulnerability,  which  is, if  it's  affected,  doesn't  matter, is  anyone  going  to  be  worse  off  by  it? And  sometimes  we  say,  okay, it's  got  sensitivity,  but  it's  senslboty. This  term  is  super  defined  and  so  we  just have  to  sort  of  be  clear  or  whatever or  using  it  what's  80  and  what's  not. And  then  there's  also this  term  resilience  which  is  used. A  lot  of  these  things  come  in  waves  based  on there's  a  group  of influencers  in  a  room  somewhere  who decide  what  the  new  term,  this  R  will  be. For  the  most  part  resilience is  the  same  as  adopts. It's  basically  the  extent  to  which the  system  bosco  back  it's acting  to  the  impact  that's  been exposed  to  this  term. Resilience  is used  differently  in  imaginary  fields. When  you're  talking  about  resilience from  like  the  resilience  of  a,  a  dam, you  mean,  how  long  is  it  going  to  be until  I  can  get the  dam  back  up  to  full  function  capacity? That's  not  the  way  that  it's  used  here. It's  resilience  is  much  more  about, much  more  commonly  about sort  of  long  term  hazard  exposure where  you're  not, you're  not  talking about  the  resucular  events, you're  talking  about  resilience  of the  system  to  a  new  state  of  Ca. Yeah,  So  I'm  sure  by  the  way, that  I  could  come  up  with  a  list  of these  weird  uses  of  terminology. For  every  lecture  that  we  go  through, I'll  try  to  do  it,  it's  in  formed. There  are  lots  lots  of  different physical  risks  out  there. And  whether  through  the  toll  paper or  the  corrosion  and shag  paper  plus  a  little  bit through  the  solo  paper, you've  seen  lots  of  references to  different  things  that  have  been  studied. I  like  this  figure  because  it's  so  bad. It's,  it's  a  little  bit  ridiculous. How  many  of  these  things don't  make  any  sense. But  there's  at  least  at  the. Okay,  we've  already  warmed  by  now. We're  more  like  one  or  1.2 degrees,  depending  on  how  you  measure. And  so  we've  got  the  sea  waves  and all  sorts  of  different  hazards. Here  you  have  weather  events would  be  another  hazard. Species  extinction. That's  a  coal  risk  up  to  one  degree. Are  these  are  all  mostly  good  in  the  sense that  there's  evidence  of all  the  stuff  happening, things  and  then  it  goes  silly with  most  of  the  world, isn't  going  to  be  uninhabitable at  five  degrees  C, at  least  not  by  any  ampication I've  seen  thing  to  be. There's  certainly  going  to  be  chunks  that inhabitable  chunks  could  be  places  like parts  of  India  that  have  people that  makes  you  mountains  doesn't  affect, does  not  affect  mass  extinctions. I  assumed  that  that  was  the  same  thing as  the  species  extinctions. We're  already  going  through  mass  extinction, so  we  need  to  get  to six  degrees  to  have  mas  species. Then  global  warming  is  worse  than warms  going  to  produce  some  of  those. Reasons  to  draw  the  comparison? Well,  not  really  do. Which  for  which  take, if  there's  no  way  for  simple clear  war  be  really,  really  bad. But  I  applaud  the  person who  who  did  this  with clearly  no  understanding  of digital  line  information  that they  trade  Software  Question. Yeah.  Is  it  one  by  zero  digit, associate  publicly  is  it is  supposed  to  session. So  any  level  of  bling increases  risk  in  parts  of  the  world that  win  five  level  is  there  seems  to  be a  nominrea  in both  the  human  and  natural  system so  that  if  you  give  level  increase, things  get  worse  faster. We  really  want  to  say  five  by  the  way. There's  no,  this  is  almost,  but  yeah, I  mean  there's  also evidence  that  anything  above  pity five  degrees  would  be  bad  but  also 0.8  degrees  C  is already  bad  for  lots  of  part. We're  already  losing  coral  reefs almost  all  cost  level. We're  already  having sea  level  rise  that's  going  to be  lasting  for  1,000  years. There's  lots  of  bad  sub. One  of  the  things  you  might  be  pointing  out is,  um,  there  are, there  are  winners  and  losers in  this  kind  of  cauation. There  are  parts  of  the  world  that  for low  levels  of  warning,  they  do  better  off. They  do  better  off  because the  winter  is  a  warm  level  and the  stars  aren't  as  bad  as  such. We  actually  see  that  in,  in the  more  taking  example  that  I  have. As  you  get  around  1.5 degrees  or  maybe  2.5  degrees, the  part  of  the  world  that wins  on  net  gets  smaller and  smaller  and  most  of  the  world  is  losing. Almost  all  the  world  is  losing by  byte  degrees. So  there  a  place where  this  could  be  coming  from. But  it's  mostly  a  political number,  not  a  sign. It  was  decided  on  by the  units  political  body in  an  attempt  to  rally  people. It  doesn't  have  very  much  there  are these  nolinitiesn  point to  budget  space  but  they  are s  range  so  it's  not, it's  not  like  is  particularly special  but  it's  a  pretty  good  to. Okay,  so  one  way  to  think  about  some  of these  impacts  is  to  think  about  the  range of  climatic  conditions  that a  species  or  system  could  handle. One  way  to  think  about  this  is what's  called  environmental  suitability of  this  is  a  general  for  kit, it  says  that  basically  the  unicity, ideal  temperatures  are  from about  18  degrees  C  to  about  28  degrees  C.  And then  you'll  see  it  progressively less  below  and  above  those  points. Temperatures  mean,  average  temperatures  mean temperatures  say  annually  are below  two  degrees  or  above  30  degrees. You  just  see  the  species. This  can  have  something like  that  for  presentation. So  what  does  this  look like  for  natural  species? I  originally  pulled  some  data for  the  blue  crab. Blue  crab  is  super  important  to Delaware  and  I  was  just hearing  a  history  lecture about  how  blue  crab  is. Sort  of,  it's  been  importance  to the  mid  Atlantic  for  at  least  500  years. So  these  are,  each  of  these  dots  is an  individual  observation  of  the  blue  crowd. So  we'll  cover  there  in a  particular  addual  location and  that's  all  we  know  to  start  out  with. You  will  know  that  these  have  been classified  as  good  points. Good  points  from  a  country  record. Country  record,  meaning  it's known  to  exist  in  the  country, not  necessarily  in  the  particular  location. No  points,  not  good points  from  country  records. So  there  are  all  these points  in  their  database. This  database  is  from an  archive  sea  life  base. And  there  are  a  bunch  of  points here  where  basically  the, the  scientist  who  looked  at  the  say  said there's  no  way  that  there  are blue  crabs  in  Europe, it's  a  American  species. So  they, they  first  just  a  bunch  of  points  that  are, aren't  included  points  then add  to  those  locations. You  can  try  to characterize  what's  climatology. This  is  a  small  part  of a  table  down  for  a  lock. All  these  points  numbered. This  is  the  location  point. And  then  you  pull  out from  something like  the  data  that  you're  using, one  information  about  the  climatology here  we're  also  looking at  the  pathymetryother  features  of  the  ocean. So  you  have  the  depth  of  the  ocean  floor  or temperature  and  other  features. And  so  that  basically  tells  you, you  can  use  that  to  evaluate  where  are the  ranges  that  you  seem  to  see  are one  of  these  observations. And  easy  to  save  you  that  is just  to  sort  of  set  some, some  quantiles  to  say,  okay, the  minimum  observation observation  for  death, that's  going  to  be  the  far  left  point  onto the  10%  point  tile  is going  to  be  my  middle,  my  next  pointer. And  then  I'm  going  to  say  that the  species  is  equally  happy  between the  tenth  percentile  and the  eighth  percentile  max. So  these  are  so  for  interacting sub  envelopes  and  the  argument  is whatever  part  of  the  world is  within  those  sub  envelopes, on  all  four  of  those  patristics'a  for because  these  words,  these  aren't, weren't  used  in  the  results  I'll  be  showing you  then,  you  know, we  believe  that  the  species has  a  suitable  habitat  there, climatologically appropriate  for  that  species. Here's  what  you  get. This  is  across  the  globe, all  suitable  habitat  for  the  blue  crack. Once  again,  we  have  suitable  habitat  in lots  of  places  where  we  have never  seen  the  blue  crack. That's  fine,  just  all  that  data. Now  we've  got  a  measure of  suitability,  suitable  habitat. That's  a  characterization  of the  current  conditions  for  the  species. But  now  we  can  do  something  like  figure out  what  its  suitable habitat  is  going  to  be  in  the  future. We  know  it's  going  to  have  to. It  is  the  species  going  to move  or  the  people fish  going  to  have  to  move? Or  what  are  the  impacts  by physical  impacts  from  climate  change? This  is  the  answer and  it  turns  out  that  a  lot  of, a  lot  of  these  results  are fairly  similar  in  spirit  to  learn  site. So  this  is the  current  or  year  2000  suitability. This  is  the  suitability  the  year  2015, and  you  can  see  that  there  are  differences. So  there  are  some  places where  there's  been  an  expansion  of suitable  habitat  here  down  into  the  Rio  area. And  areas  where  there's  been  a  sort  of hollowing  out  of  suitable  habitat. In  particular  across  the  Caribbean, across  southern  Florida. But  these  are  preference, it's  not  like  the  majority  of the  blue  crabs  habitat  is  going  to  go away  by  2050  under  this  is, this  is  actually  a  high  emissions  scenario that  they  to  this  p.  But. The  snares  don't  turn  divers  too  much. By  2015,  so  in  general  by  2050, it's  not  like  this  species is  going  to  be  devastated  except  for  local. And  that's,  that's  what  you see  for  a  lot  of  species. To  give  you  the  realdmation  it  matters. Particularly  let's  for  something  like  crab, which  is  going  to  spawn  everywhere. There  are  lots  of  species of  fish  that  love  to  spawn  in areas  that  are  at  the  extreme  of what  they're  able  to  handle because  that's  also  extreme, but  their  predators  might  be  able  to  handle. And  so  they'll  be  a  little  bit  safer  there. But  then  they're  thumb  enough  to  try to  go  back  there  to the  same  locations  even  after climate  has  made  it  so  it's past  the  extreme  of  what  they  can  handle. There's  species  that  they  get  screwed  over you  when  they're  doesn't  change  that  much. Species  was  not  so  affected. Like  I  said,  lost  species  aren't  so effect  wasn't,  that's  very  effect. So  these  are, this  is  the  same  coral  reef  just  before, during,  and  after coal  bleaching  events  look  like. When  a  bleaching  event  occurs,  all  the  sell, missed  the  symbiotic  bacteria that  the  coral  uses to  take  its  food  from  the  coral, injects  it  into  the  water, call  in  an  attempt  to  try  to  save  itself, which  would  be  fine  if temperatures  mainly  caused  by  temperatures. If  temperatures  fall  back  down  and then  the  coral  can  take  back  in those  bacteria  and  then  this  way. But  usually  what  happens  is that  you  have  at  least  st, walls  of  coral  reef  That then  all  the,  all  the  pulse, all  the  zoom  that  are the  Nvt  coral  can survive  without  the  food source  and  they'll  die. And  then  what  often  happens is  that  the  whole  area  is  taken over  by  algae  and by  jellyfish  and  the  coral  nerve. There  have  been  market  increase in  coral  bleaching  events  across  the  world. And  you  can  see,  by  the  way, these  are  classified  into moderate  and  severe  moderate  event, those  are  the  kinds  of  coral  bleaching  events that  coral  can  recover  from. If  you  get  hit  by  a  moderate event,  the  bleach  happens. But  maybe  not  ever  or  may  not  every  coral  in area  and  then  a  bunch  of  the  coral  survive. There's  a  big  question  of  whether  whether coral  will  only  get killed  off  by  severe  bleach  events or  if  enough  moderate  bleach  events in  session  will  kill  them  off. Because  we're,  we're  going  to into  a  time  period where  there's  some  areas  are just  older  coral  is  going  to  die  because because  we're  moving  outside of  the  suitability  outlook  be  able to  not  have  a  permanent  leav. But  what's  happening  in more  areas  is  that these  bleaching  events  are  going  to  go  from being  a  once  in 50  year  or  somewhat  year  thing, two  to  every  year  event. And  if  it's  never  year, then  people  generally  think that  even  a  moderate  events again  and  again  and  again we  will  come  off  of  the  form. Like  I  said,  this  seems  to be  largely  driven  by  tempature. This  is  these  are  temperatures  to  the  line. Fourth,  are  temperatures  off of  particular  islands  in  Thailand. Okay.  Across  the  top  are  mark  the  years  of significant  bleaching  events  and you  can  see  that  basically  every time  that  the  temperature  goes above  30.1  degrees  Celsius, you're,  there's  a  hard  cut off  that  this  species has  that  existed  in  off  of the  islands  after  that  point. If  you  look  at  larger  areas  like  coral  reef, you  don't  usually  see  these  kind of  hard  edges  because  you  have a  lot  of  different  species  and coral  in  lots  of  different  conditions. This  is  a  graph  of  the  portion  of  corals that  immediately  died  when  they  were exposed  to  some  sort  of  heat  stress  events. You  can  see  that  as the  event  becomes  more  extreme, you  have  a  larger  portion. But  it's  not  like  an  immediate  cutoff like  you  see  in  this  grab. Whether  you  have  a  cutoff or  more  smooth  curves on  a  lot  of  things  including how  many  different  species  you  have. One  fun  point  to  get  to, agriculture  and  climate  change matters  or  energy  climate  change, those,  this  is  degree  heating  weeks is  the  measure  on  the  x  axis. Basically,  that's  the  product  of how  hot  things  are and  how  long  the  heating  events  lasted. If  you  ask  energy  modelers how  they  figure  out how  much  AC  use  area will  have,  they  say,  well, we  know  that  that AC  usage  correlates  very  strongly with  the  degree  days  above  26  degree  Celsius. Does  that  mean  degree  days? So  if  you  have  a  Q  day  at  27  degrees  Celsius, then  you  have  one  degree  day. If  you  have  two  days  of 27  degrees  Celsius,  two  degree  days, you  can  also  get  two  degree  days  by saying  28  degrees  Celsius, two  degrees,  26  degrees  Celsius, mark  for  one  day. And  so  you  can  sort  of  add  it  all  up across  how  low  the  event  in  this  case  to figure  out  the  12  degrees  just  realized. When  energy  modelers  talk  about  that, they  talk  about  degree  cooling  degree  days. A  cooling  degree  days  a  high  temperature because  you  want  to  try  to  cool  here, they  call  this  degree  heating  weeks. I  think  that  they  probably  mislabeled  this because  what  they  mean is  degree  weeks  on  the  high  end, but  degree  weeks  on  high  are  usually  cooling degree  weeks.  It's  a. Okay,  So  this  leads  me to  my  next  question  which  is, do  humans  have  an environmental  suitability  lope? Think,  see  the  people who  have  maybe  seen  this  slide  before. People  think,  I, I've  taken  some  of  these  slides  from, I  did  a  guest  lecture  for environmental  resource  class, and  that's  this. So  I'm  trying  to  add  an  additional  stuff for  the  people  who  were  in  that  class, but  it's  still  a  sensible  way  to both  those  of  you  who  didn't  see this  in  when  I  did a  guest  lecture  for  resource. What  do  you  think?  Yes. Why  most  advanced  species on  the  planet  jakenergy maintains  basis?  Correct? Like  that.  I  like  that.  And  that is  what  that  is  going  to  be, my  sort  of  my  argument  that personally  we  can  burn things  to  make  more  energy. But  yeah,  if  you  I out  away  from  your  technology, then  you  have  to  cool  yourself off  and  that  you're sort  up  to  your  own  devices. So  the  question  is  what  are  our  own  devices? How  do  we  cool  ourselves  off? And  is  there  a  limits  to  that? And  it  turns  out  that  there's  a, it  say, very  biophysical  limits  to how  much  we  can  cool  ourselves  off. It  has  to  do  with  orbotic  to  sweat. We're  fairly  unique  species,  we  can  sweat. It's  the  main  weight  that poor  cells  down  means that  we  can  manage much  higher  temperatures  than  other  species. But  sweating  is  a  physical  process,  right? We  put  some  water  on  our  skin  and then  the  water  evaporates and  that's  cools  us  down. Well,  if  you  they're load  side  buses  at  a  certain  point, pouring  more  more  water on  someone  isn't  going  to  pull  them  down. And  it's  not  your  ability to  cool  yourself  down  by  sweating. Usually  isn't  water  limited. It's  only  water  limited. If  you  have  some  sort  of  you're  sweating, tell  you,  just  read  the  slide. There's  a  maximum  temperature  that  we  can survive  and  it's  related  to  the  wet  tempture. What  do  you  do  to  measure what's  called  the  stall  tempature? You  take  a  thermometer  and  you wrap  it  with  a  wet  cloth. So  you've  given  that  thermometer the  ability  to  save  naturally. As  soon  as  you  wrap  it  with  a  wet  cloth, the  temperature  of the  thermometer  reads  is  going  to drop  because  it's  going to  be  releasing  steam. Just  the  same  way  that  we  do  when  we  sweat. The  dry  teturempture  is always  going  to  be  lower  than  the  blessure. How  much  lower  it's  going  to  be  is  going  to depend  on  the  humidity, air  flow,  and  how  much  incident some  sunlight  is  coming  down. So  you  can  come  up, you  can  write  down  a  sebations  that  tells you  how  much  cooler local  temperature  is  going  to  be. The  important  thing  though here  is  that  slide. The  important  thing  though  here  is that  that's  going  to  be  the  temperature that  you're  wiping  cools  off  to  Do you  guys  all  know  what body  temperature  is  supposed  to  be? It's  supposed  to  be  98.6  90,  Yeah. So  if  the  wet  temperature  in your  area  is  above 98.6  degrees  in  your  members  above  that, then  you  will  have  heat  stroke. Your  body  cannot  pull  itself  down below  that  90.6  degrees because  it  doesn't  matter  how  much, don't  matter  how  much  water. Your  body  will  have a  higher  temperature  than  body  temperature. So  I  like,  let  me  sort  of  here, we  aren't  expecting  to have  wet  temperatures  above  98.6 degrees  anywhere  in  the  globe  for a  while  these  are pretty  extreme  temperatures. Most  of  the  places  that  get  really  hot, also  very  dry  even  you  have  to have  like  a  Dr  temperature  of 150  degrees  or  something  to temperature  of  90.6  degrees. But  you  can  have  We  temperatures  that  are  in the  '80s  as  a  result  of a  mixture  of  dry  temperatures  and  humidity. When  you  do  that,  people  start  dying. The  people  who  die  tend  to  be more  overly  people  and people  who  are  otherwise, whose  health  is  otherwise  impaired. But  you  don't,  you  don't  have  to  go  beyond the  suitability  outlook to  spiritual  problems. Let  me  pop  over  to, this  is actually  a  different  version of  this  was  actually  in the  Pens  paper  that  we  read. This  is  on  the  left.  Let  me  start  here. Summer  temperatures  across  all  states circle  Delaware  and  then  this  is summer  temperatures  by  the  end  of the  century  under a  low  mitigation,  high  warm  scenario. You  can  see  that  whole  thing just  happened  in  the  scary  way, by  ten  degrees,  which  is  a  lot  more  than the  global  mean  surface  temperature  change. But  what  I  think  is  even more  notable  is  what  happens to  the  combination of  temperature  and  humidity. These  are,  this  is  measured in  expected  category  two  ACP,  HHS, I  days  per  R.  The  ECP  was  project estimate  the  economic  risk  of  change as  alternate  the  H,  HSI  is  the Humidity, heat  sensitivity  index,  something  like  that. Essentially,  it  was,  it  was a  direct  use  of  well  temperature and  category  two  was temperatures  above  80  degrees  well  tempature. So  how  many  days  above 80  degrees  temperature  are  going  to  have  per if  you  see  the  Delaware  currently  has about  two  to  three  days  like  this  per  year. At  least  did  back  80  to  2010s. And  the  only  place  that  you  had  that  had  say, weeks  of  temperatures  above 80  degrees  Fahrenheit  was  Louisiana, which  you  have  been to  Louisiana  in  summer  is  a very  unpleasant  15  by  the  end  of  the  century. There's  just  this  cloud  of  states, all  which  are  above  where  Louisiana  is  now having  months  of  high  wel  temperature  days. Okay. So  I'll  give  you  a  physical  explanation  for why  we  expect  human  bodies start  to  break  down  of  Officer  Tenture. The  next  piece  of  evidence  I want  to  bring  you, that's  the  hazard,  that's the  natural  science  scientists just  understanding  hazard  and  exposure. The  next  step  is  biophysical modeling  of  that  process. The  core  of  the  work  to  understand the  biophysical  process  for  what  happens when  people  exposed  to high  temperatures  is  actually mainly  used in  understanding  labor  productivity. Historically,  it  was  done  with  people in  the  army  being  tasked  to do  certain  things,  often  physical  tasks. And  then  basically  they  would, they  specifically  measure,  okay, you  expose  this  person to  this  much  temperature and  the  productivity  is falling  by  this  amount. And  so  we  know  their, their  productivity  curve. So  you  can  see  Arctites are  falling  to  60  degrees. As  you  go  from  actual 65  to  May  you  sure. Oh,  this  is  drive  bubble. So  you  actually  have  a. So  you  can  see  that  at 100  degrees  drill  is  90  degrees  bubble. They  had  to  cause  that  to  happen. These  are  controlled  conditions  and  actually people  are  managing  to  So  task. The  general  received  wisdom though  is  that  for wet  ball  temperatures  above  86  degrees, any  sort  of  moderate  activity  is going  to  give  you  construct  because your  body  is  going  to  be  Gary. And  so  nable  to  reduce  your  body  temperature. What  I'm  actually  surprised  that  people  were, so  this  task  at  60  degrees, it  looks  like  they  were  going  to  sing. Continuing,  fairly  non  energetic. We  have  this  related  literature that  comes  from  labor  productivity. And  then  we  can  take  it  last  step  to  health, which  there are  different  ways  of  measuring  health. We  can  think  about  morbidity, like  admissions  to  hospitals. Or  we  can  think  about  mortality,  death. And  the  data  for mortality  is  so  much  easier  to get  the  data  for  morbidity. Morbidity,  people  who  are  still alive  still  conveniently  because then  to  worry  about  their  privacy. But  you  can  very  easily  get  data on  mortality's  publicly  available. And  so  as  a  result of  doing  some  econometrics, you  get  curves  like  this. Let  me  tell  you, these  are  estimated reduced  response  curves  for the  United  States  relating mortality  to  temperature. The  way  to  read  these is  to  think  about  changes  in  the  curve. Because  I'm  going  to, I'm  going  to  tell  you  about  how to  read  those  after I  give  you  a  little, let  me  sort  of  discussion. Just  to  say,  one  of  the  key  features of  these  is  this  characteristic  U  shaped. What  that  tells  you  is  that  mortality  rates are  higher  for  ports  and  for  tempatures, and  they  come  to  some  minimum  in  between and  that  port  of  hot  temptures  off, Which  means  that  the  areas  of the  US  Agus  results  where temperatures  started  over  here and  warmed  in  the  struction, they're  going  to  see  declines  in mortality  regions  that  are  over  here. And  further  increases  in  They're  going to  see  increases,  yes. So  when  we  talk  about  human and  is  the  fact that  the  whole  process of  the  temperature  changes happening  in  1,000  years, are  you,  is  the  fact  that the  adapted  capacity  is  a  constant  to  humans? Is  it  like  they  avoid  the  fact  that humans  can  adapt  eventually at  some  point  or  the  1,000  years. I  want  to,  I  want  to  keep most  of  the  discussion  about  patient to  Thursday  next  week. But  this  result  in  a  lot  of  the  results in  the  discussed  in  like the  corrosion  and  strong  paper have  no  adaptation  at  all. It  just  wasn't  because  it's really  tough  to  figure out  how  much  people  could adapt  in  the  future  or even  to  observe  the  adapt. But  one  interesting  thing  is that  we  can  look at  how  these  curves  look different  in  hot  areas of  the  US  and  Rs  the  US, they  do  look  different. They  flatten  out  considerably in  areas  of  the  US  that  are  hot just  because  people  have  it on  a  long  timescale. I  think  a  lot  of  people are  fairly  comfortable  with the  idea  that  we  could  fully  adapt  to  change. For  example,  we  can  build domes  of  over  cities. But  it's  here  and  we  haven't  seen, we  got  a  lot  of  places  where  we expect  there  hasn't  been  nearly  as  much as  you  would  have  expected  so far  and  so  we're  not  really sure  if  it's  going  to  be  as  much  as we  hope  it's  going  to  be  a  feature. Yeah,  Yeah, but  those  are  the  limitations to  what  we  can  measure. Okay.  So  I'm  curious  as  to why  there  is  a  sharp  decline  to  the  left of  some  of  the  No one's  going  outside  at those  extremely  cold  temperatures. You  know,  they  don't  want  to  go  outside. And  as  long  as  people are  staying  indoors,  they're  not. You  have  Yeah. It  turns  out  that  whenever like  interstates  shut down  or  we  have  a  large  epidemic  states, doors,  mortality  rates  fall just  because  people  die, because  they  fat  side  side is  a  really  dangerous  pit. That's  literally  a  product of  the  fact  that  they  reached  to the  point  where  it  gets  so  cold  that so  many  people  stay  inside, so  mortality  system, but  we  don't  see  the  same  to  the  right because  it  gets  so hot  that  even  if  you  stay inside  it  should  that  it  does. People  who  spend  a  large the  trans  doors  still  have  this, this  right  hand  side  curve  and  no  one knows  why  because  you shouldn't  need  to  have  it. But  I  think  it's, I  think  one  explanation  is when  it's  really  cold, it's,  you  could  see, for  example,  snow  and  ice  on  the  ground and  your  car  line  at  work  and  you sort  of  physical  barrier is  toping  from  going  outside  at  the  high  end. I  think  people  do,  so  outside  and then  don't  realize  how  hot  it  was. Yeah.  Remind  people  who are  like  work  in  the  summer  and they  don't  realize  that  they're even  experiencing  heat  stroke. They  start  getting,  getting  dizzy  and then  they  realize  it's  very  interesting. So  here  you  get,  when  you, if  you  project  that  across the  globe  or  across  the  US, this  is  deaths, additional  deaths  at  the  end  of  the  century. What's  called  excess  mortality, The  effect  of  a  climate  change  on  death  rate, something  like  a  six  degree  increase. You  have,  you  have  a  big  chunk  of  the  US typically  the  hotter  and  more  humid  areas that  has  enormous  increases  in,  in  rates. These  areas  in  say  50  additional  deaths, 100,000  that's  comparable  to all  infectious  diseases  are  all introduced  at  the  same  time. You  have  a  bunch  of  US  that  currently  is  hit by  extreme  winters that's  experiencing  significant  benefits. So  yeah,  there  are  definitely  winners and  losers  from  friendship, at  least  from  this  estimation. Okay,  I'll  say  more  about  mortality, but  I've  tried  to  break  it  up  so  as  not to  people  who  saw  some  of  this  before. Let  me  tell  you  about  a  couple  other  risks. Rainfall  risks,  this  is increases  in  drought  across Central  South  North  America, water  scarcity  and  also  pass in  river  floods  in  different  areas. You  can  see  that  going from  the  Mississippi  1.5  degrees, you  have  20%  increase in  river  floods  by  two  degrees, a  56%  increase. So  these  things  can  be, as  I  say,  quite  always, have  that  drought  length, additional  months,  you  have one  additional  month  of  fire, one  ad  month,  a  decrease. It  really  depends  on  different  areas, but  significance and  very  uncertain  changes across  rain  forests. One  thing  to  put  that  into  context, there  was a  really  interesting  worldwide  report some  years  ago  that  wanted  to  look  at how  natural  disasters  put  people  into poverty  and  how  many  people put  the  measured,  okay? Average  number  of  families  that are  falling  into  poverty because  of  different  naturals. 3000  families  here, 150  families foot  because  storm  surge  and  so  on. Then  they  do  the  same  graph  with  the  same  y, y  label,  but  different  y  axis  over  here. And  the  reason  is  that  floods  and  droughts, basically  each  individual  put more  people  into  poverty  every  year. Then  all  other  natural  disasters combined  Have  any  idea  why  that  would  be? We  don't  usually  think plus  dregs  are  bad  but, but  like  we  usually  think that  these  other  things that  Nomes  and  Earth  fix  are  really  bad  too. By  this  just  be  so  much  bigger from  birthday  day  basis. It's,  it's  more  the  people  tend  to, to  grab  to  flood  Primaries. So  that's,  that's  part  of  the  reason  here. But  the  other  is  that floods  and  droughts  are  just  covering huge  swazland  and  lasting for  long  periods  of  time,  droughts. So  you  can  you  end up  affecting  huge  numbers  of  people, whether  or  not  there  they're living  right  next  to  where the  floods  and  dugs  are  happening  because, because  they're,  they're  just All  states  can  get hit  by  applying  at  the  same  time. Where  that  didn't  happen for  the  natural  disasters. It's  merely  like  the  area of  the  event  and  the  duration  of. One  interesting  fun  point  this is  looking  at,  these  are, these  are  more  just  sunions still  in  direct  to  sub  sion  for  you, but  they  are  showing  you different  studies  that  are related  on  the  x  axis, some  level  of  weather  climate  deviation, some  sort  of  hazard  on  the  y  axis  is showing  some  measure  of  conflict  or  crime, or  civil,  violent  crime  of  violence. This,  by  the  way,  is  a  subset  of  what's, what's  included  in  this particular  literature  review,  meto  analysis. First  you  can  see  is  across  all  of  these, the  further  you  get  to  the  right, the  more  you  have  of violence,  crime  and  conflict. That's  interesting  and  there's a  large  part  of the  conflict  academic  community that  does  not  like  this,  these  results. And  has  potentially  good  reasons for  not  liking  these  results. But  the  main  argument that  they  have  for  why  they don't  like  these  results  is  they  say,  look, even  if  these  results  exist, conflicts  and  violence  are the  result  of  social  institutions. I'm  just  going  to  put  that, I'm  telling  you  that  that's what  they  said  we're  going  to  decide because  I  think  it's  much  more interesting  to  understand  what these  are  actually  telling  us to  the  extent  that  they  exist. What  they're  telling  us  is  that  there's a  direct  linear  relationship between  the  environment  that we  experience  and  something that  is  incredibly  socially complicated,  conflict  of  violence. That  unlike  let's  say this  curve  where  you  have an  ideal  temperature  and and  then  shape  curve  where as  a  result  of  how you  shape  curve  you  have  winners  and  losers. Because  this  is  a  linear  curve, any  place  where  you  have things  becoming  more  extreme, they're  all  going  to  have  an  increase. If  I  were  to  make  the  same  map with  these  curves  rather than  those  U  shaped  curves, you  would  see  more  or  less  uniform  levels of  red  increases  in violence  and  conflict everywhere  across  the  US. The  shape  of  these  matters, the  shape  of  these  determines what  you'll  see  in  projections  of  them. It  turns  out  that  people  are, surprisingly,  yeah, surprising,  linear  in  this  particular  way. One  of  the  Funk  studies  that, that  people  have  done  is  where the  researcher  would  take  their  car  and put  it  in  front  of  a  stop  light. And  then  wait  and see  how  long  it  took  for  people  to  start blaring  their  horns  at him  to  get  going  to  go  through the  suit  after  turn  green and  compare  that  to  how  hot  it  was. It  turns  out  that  when  it's  hotter, people  will  start  blaring their  horns  a  lot  faster, Despite  the  fact  that  you  imagine probably  most  boring  air  conditioned  cars. It  turns  out  that  higher  temperatures and  more  extreme  N  conditions  unsettle  us, cause  us  to  be  more  prone  to  all  manner  of, let's  call  it  some  poor  judgments. But  yeah,  it  happens at  both  the  individual  level. You  see  rape  and  property  crime when  they're  in  the  state level  civil  conflict  onset. Like,  it  might  just be  like  general  variability. But  a  lot  of  them  I  see  them  like, strangely  it  still  rises  like pretty  high  up  for  high  heat. But  it  then  dips down  and  then  goes  back  up  a  little  bit. Has  a  low  dip  to  the  right. I'm  thinking  like  is  that maybe  because  it  gets  so  hot  that it  hinders  crimes  from  happening because  people  are  just  trying  to  survive. But  then  if  it  gets  even  hotter, it's  like  people  are fighting  for  their  lives, so  it  will  do  anything. I  think  that's  a  very  good  story. I  think  the  main  reason  why  it sort  of  very  fuzzy  is  because we  just  don't  have that  many  observations  out  there. We  don't  know  whether that  is  the  real  story  or  not, but  it  could  be  a.  Right. It's  very  interesting  though that  it's  like  linear  instead  of being  that  U  shape  or  a  more  quathata'. There  isn't  sort  of  an  ideal  temperature wherever  you,  where  you  are. Perhaps  whatever  you're  adapted  to a  further  escalation  in the  environment  scale  result in  a  further  escalation. The  here, there  are  a  huge  number of  potential  impacts  out  there. This  is  a  graphic that  together  for  describing some  analysis  and  just  some of  the  facts  that  we might  be  concerned  about. But  one  of  the  things  I think  is  interesting  in all  of  the  things  on  this  list  have been  identified  as  impacts. Wonder  how  many  things  on this  list  aren't  on  this  list, but  the  ones  in dark  blue  are  well  represented  in  the  litre. The  ones  like  are  not  to well  were  the  ones  in gray  we  don't  really  have  good  estimates  of. Okay,  so  you  can  see  crime conflict  on  there  and probably  civil  conflict  is  all  have  essence. We  know  something  about  it. But  something  like  international  conflict, which  we  just  haven't  had a  special  machine  to  observe. National  security,  which  is  more  difficult  to define  metrics  and  things  gets  complicated. Even  something  like  livestock  have a  handle  on  with  labor  supply. It  turns  out  that  we  have a  pretty  good  concept of  how  much  people are  spending  their  time  working. A  poor  idea  of the  outcomes  they're  coming  from, their  work  or  their  own  experience, so  the  quality  of their  welfare  when  they're  working. And  also  consider  health impacts  a  tons of  different  things  in  your  health. Early  life  impacts  sector disease  diseases  is  really  spector. Disease  means  things  like  like  malaria. Maybe  if  you  were  you  have another  species  that  is mediating  the  spread  of  the  disease. On  the  one  hand  that is  potentially  quite  easy to  understand  because  we  can  use  some  of these  techniques of  environmental  suitability. We  can  say,  okay,  we know  that  as  a  result  of  climate  change, a  big  portion  of the  United  States  is  going  to  become environmentally  suitable  for  the  species of  mosquito  that  carries  Blair. But  that's  an  actual  regime  shift, it's  a  change  in the  state  of  those  ecosystems. We  don't  know,  as  a  result of  that  area  becoming  more  suitable, if  the  species  is  actually  moved  there, maybe  other  species  are  going  to  squeeze  out. We  don't  know  if  the  particular  life  cycle is  going  to  work  particularly  well between  the  mosquito  and the  malaria  parasite. There  are  a  lot  of  things  that  we  can't, can't  know  because  we  don't have  the  data  to  go  along  with  them. When  you  talk  about  a  disease moving  in  the  new  area. Yeah.  Energy,  we  know  a  lot  about energy  because  the  engineers  have  done a  really  good  job  there. Coastal  damage  is  also  a  fair  amount  of good  work  because  the  risk  sector has  a  lot  there.  One  of  the Biggest  loaning  efforts  across the  private  sector  has  better  to understand  how  expensive  cyclones and  large  storms  are  going  to  be. But  again,  we  have  these  areas  where the  actual  infrastructure  of the  structure  of  the  economy might  change  the  result  of  cost  damages. You  might  have  a disruption  to  transportation, which  is  then  going  to  change  the  way that  goods  have  to be  moved  around.  What  is  that? How  quickly  is  that?  What  does  that  mean  for the  larger  economy?  Anyone's  guess? And  there  are  a  bunch  of  things here  that  city, a  lot  of  suffer  the  people who  do  biodiversity  loss  and  ecosystems. How  successful  climate change  academics  have  been. I  don't  think  that's  because particularly  more  effective, anything  that  we've  been  successful. But  what  I  mean  by  more  successful  is  no  one cares  about  the  fact  that  we're  going through  a  great  mass  extinction  globally. Do  you  care  about  climate  change  though? The  fact  that  it  will  care  about  one the  others  might  just be  a  feature  of marketing  that  had  nothing  to  do with  the  economic  work  that's going  on  around  it. But  there's, there  are  a  bunch  of  problems  are  happening across  the  natural  world  that  don't change  where the  research  has  been really  hobbled  by  the  fact that  there  isn't  interest  in  money. There's,  in  addition,  climate  change  effects on  biodiversity  loss  and  in  services, which  is  what's  being  highlighted here  that's  at  the  intersection between  these  two  areas. And  so  has  doubly not  been  very  well  explored. But  it  looks  like  the  main  outcome of  some  studies  is  to  say that  the  main  comms, biodiversity  loss are  coming  from  climate  change. Currently,  we  don't  expect them  to  be  climate  change  to  be the  most  important  factor  for  quite  a  while. In  most  areas  I  think it's  important  says  here's a  synthesizes for  the  rural  society  for  some  reason that  over  across  the  top here  are  different  kinds  of  impacts. We  go  left  here  is  just  the  core  hazards, not  really  impacts  but changes  in  the  environment. And  so  there  on the  first  row  is  direct  impacts, things  where  you  immediately see  what's  happening  by looking  in  the  place where  the  hazard  happened. Further  down  you  have  interacting or  concurrent  or  sequential  impacts, Things  where  there's,  there's  some  amount  of ational  complications  sort  of still  within  the  system as  it  currently  observed. And  then  the  last  piece here  is  structural  change, where  you  actually  have  a  change to  the  underlying  system. And  as  a  result,  the  way  that  the  way  that these  different  systems  are going  to  operate  is  going to  respond  to  hazards  changed. So  we  know  a  lot  about  hazards, we  don't  actually,  as  of  the  past  IPCC, I  would  say  quite  a  bit  about  a  number  of interacting  hazards  like  heat  waves, rather  just  heat  events, water  stress,  rather  than  just  drought. We  know  relatively  little, but  there  have  been  major  studies  trying to  pull  this  out  about  tipping  points, which  is  the  structural change  piece  for  hazards. The  market  impacts. Market  impacts  are  those  where  we have  a  lot  more  data because  it's  something  that  we  buy, sell,  and  we  have  some  information about  how  to  value  these  losses. I'll  say  more  about  this  one. As  we  get  into  economic  risks, we  know  a  lot  about the  direct  impacts  in  terms of  actually include  livestock  because  of  the  way. Said  that  something  is  included. Vegas  livestock, drought,  labor,  productivity. There's  a  lot  of  work  on  CG  assessments, which  all  the  minutes, a  lot  of  work  on  catastrophic  losses. But  then  you  can  see  agriculture. It's  not  here,  which  would  mean  that  we only  know  it's  cut  packs  there, We  know  structuring  impacts, it's  actually  all  the  way  down  here. We  know  quite  a  bit about  its  structural  change, the  structural  changes  that  are. But  actually  there  hasn't  been  a  synthesis. There's  been  a  careful  modeling. Individual  studies  have  gone all  the  way  down  to  the  bottom. Same  with  individual  products all  the  way  down  to  the  bottom. But  we're  still  trying  to understand  quite  a  bit  as  production  assets. We  know  a  lot  about  other  resources, but  a  lot  of  these  things haven't  been  brought  down to  surf  change  levels. And  then  nonmarket  impacts  are things  like  morbidity,  mortality, recreation,  land  value,  ecosystem  services, portions  of  the  Ion. And  what  you  see  is  this  large and  larger  area  of no  major  studies  that  have  dealt with  the  complications  of  these  things. You  even  have  some  sectors where  we  don't  even know  the  direct  immediate  impacts. We  certainly  don't  know  anything  about the  part  of  this  field  has just  been  trying  to  push this  green  area  to  have  a  war  space. This  representation  of  it is  actually  fairly  optimistic. It,  it's  a  fairly  rosy  conception  of  it in  that  I  actually think  that  we  know  a  ton  bow about  a  whole  range  of  physical  impacts. If  I  put  this  next  to what  the  list  of  what  impacts  are  included in  most  economic  assessments of  the  climate  change, you'll  be  very  confused  as  I am  because  very  few  of  these  are  included, despite  the  fact  that  we know  a  lot  about  them. But  we  still,  the  big  front  here, I  guess  you  recall, is  structure  market  impacts where  across this  whole  structure  change  area, we  know  almost  I have  time  to  get  into  sources  of evidence  reserve  is  going  to  talk about  just  response  Cos, but  I'll,  I'll  do that  maybe before  Frank's  presentation  on  Thursday. We'll  fix  the  presentation  mark after  any  other  questions. Yeah,  stuff. Thanks.  I'll  see  pass  on  Thursday. So  Yeah,  F  free  to  come by  or  whatever  it  All  right. Having  the  688  path  for  which  is like  two  measures  of  discree for  the  serve's  I know  last  semester  you  said  as long  as  as  long as  you  just  specify AI  to  help  with  coating  and  stuff  like  that, that  does  that  sell  by  Yeah. Yeah.  Let  me  know  what  you  asked the  AI  or  what  the  supposition  was  and the  It  Ts  and  also  It  office. I  might  but  there is  I  think  the  policy  is  what  it  says. Policy  but  the  the  intellectual  benefits you  thinking  to  try  to  figure  out. Yes.  Okay.  How  would you  measure  dispare  two  bits? What's  the,  what  are the  benefits  or  things lost  from  different  ways? And  imagine  measuring  things. Okay.  Yeah.  I  kind  of  just  said  like, how  would  I  do  this? Okay?  Do  you  read  the? Yeah.  And  then  I  like  did  the  analysis myself.  What  is  this?
