Truth  happened, I'm  only  connected  to  those  rooms  through. And  so  I  had  to  just hope  that  this  is  going  to  come up  to  55  in  good  shape. Welcome,  I'm  excited  to  do  this. Clim  Change  Economics  developed the  course  for  the  first  time two  years  ago  and  this  time made  an  effort  to  scare  a lot  of  people  away  with Bureau  versus  the  reason for  that  is  because  there  was a  bile  distribution  in  the  course  to  people who  had quantitative  background understanding  of  fiber, understanding  these quantitatively  and  those  who  didn't. It  wasn't  actually  econ versus  non  econ  background. I'm  still  somewhat  shaping the  pre  rex  to  the  largest  pool that  we  get  out  of  the  class. I  hope  that  you  all  will. Based  on  the  e  mails that  people  who  approached  me, it  sounds  like  you  all  have  interest  in diverse  backgrounds  that  are  going to  be  relevant  to  all  we're  talking  about. But  yeah, it's  the  second  time  it's  going  to  be  talk. So  I'm  pretty  excited  about  where  this  goes. I  wanted  to  ask  you  all  did  yourself  myself, give  an  overview  of  the  course  and then  we'll  see  how  much  time  we  have  left for  talking  about  climate  science  of  course. And  then  we'll  talk  about  this  in  a  minute, but  we're  also  going  to have  some  traffic  comes in  our  which  will  on  Thursdays. My  name  is  James  Rising. I'm  assistant  Professor  of  Marine  School. It  turns  out  that  at  the  University  Delaware, the  Marine  School  is  sort  of  the  hub of  not  economics. So  that's  the  reason  there. I  do  a  lot  of  work  on  impacts  and  Aation, much  of  that  work  is  global. I  also  work  on  trade  assessment  models. Try  assessment  models  or  something that  we'll  learn  more about  over  the  course  of  the  semester, but  they're  basically computational  models  that  bring  together climate  science  mitigation impacts  no  one  package, I'm  going  to  be  doing  office  hours, even  3021  on  Thursdays. I'm  also  going  to  have  my  zoom open  during  this  office  hours. You  can  either  come  to  my  room, which  is  up  in  inson  hall, or  you  can  just  log  in  on  Zoom. I'm  also  happy  to  take, this  is  a  little  Ls  thing that  knows  about  my  calendar  time. That's  this  Thursday. I  have  a  little  conflict  and  so  I'm  not  going to  be  coming  in  to  the  officers  until  noon. I'm  not  expecting  that many  of  you  are  going to  have  those  questions, but  I'll  be  available. So  that's  me.  I  would love  to  find  out  who  we  have  with  us If  you  could  do  your  name  and  your  program and  why  do  you  want  to  learn?  We  start  here. Hi  my  staff  candidate in  the  engineering  department. I  guess  I  want  to  in this  class  because  my  research  falls how  different  environmental  policies affect  our  engineering  systems  more. Let  the  policy  side. Yes.  Counsel,  my  name  is Shelly  Gitoicy',  traded  student. The  reason  study  climate  change purposes,  common  taxes  generate. How  change  can  be  calculated? Can  be  calculated  I  think  is that  had  to  recover  ways  on  how  to  be  cover. So  I  want  to  do searching  but  I'm  invitan, experienced  student  in  the  school of  basically  I  currently I'm  working  on  renewable  energy. But  also  I  would  like  to  explore  how climate  scientists  and  economists do  the  work  in  this  field. So  I  want  to  explore  this  field  on  date. Masters  Environmental Economics  State  semester, And  basically  I  want to  learn  more  about  climate  change  economics. Just  because  it's  like  climate  change at  the  forefront  with  a  lot of  policy  issues  and  programs  at  the  moment. My  name  is  Travis. I'm  a  first  year  graduate  student for  environmental  science  and  management and  I  want  to  study climate  change  economics  because I  just  took  environmental  economics. And  I  feel  like  it's  a  good  segue into  kind  what  I'm  more  interested  in. I  study  it's  arc on  the  other  side  of  the  wall. I'm  interested  in  the intersection  between  climate  and society  and  I  feel  like  a  big  part  of that  is  the  economics  of  it. Pretty  interesting. Second,  Ronal  Electronics. My  primary  research  lies in  climate  change  and  technology. Agriculture  experience  to  discuss. My  name  is  a,  I'm  a  second  year  student  in the  program.  I  took  this  class. I  interest  in  policy  just for  of  course  is  of  interest. I'm  Frank,  also a  second  year  D  economic  student. I  want  to  take  this  course because  I'm  interested  in  studying energy  industry  and  energy  transition  and skip  background. Excellent.  Well  welcome  everyone. I'm  excited  that  we  have  people coming  from  engineering  side, from  the,  from  economics, marmatonomics,  policy. This  is  what  economics, what  makes  economics  exciting? It  is  such  a  melting  pot  of difference  disciplines  and  it  really  needs  to be  to  tackle  some of  the  big  questions  that  we're getting  into  based  on  what  you've  all  said. I  think,  I  think we're  going  to  be  able  to  talk about  a  lot  of things  that  are  of  interest  to  you. Just  a  few  quick  points about  where  we  are today  in  terms  of  climate  change. It  was  an  incredibly  hot  year. I'm  sure  you  all  know  that  I loved  this  form  of  looking  at  because it  shows  furch  year  every single  monthly,  low  average  temperature. And  the  circled  dots are  the  record  breaking monthly  temperatures  and you  see  that  about  half  the  year  was record  breaking  temperatures  and  so  far beyond  what  the  rest  of  the  trend  was. That's,  it's  interesting  and  it's  worrying. One  of  the  big  questions  is, does  this  suggest  there  are  things  about the  climate  system  that we  don't  understand  or  that, or  particularly  non  linear, Or  is  a  reflection  of  something that  is  almost  as  important  from, from  a  policy  or  an  economic  standpoint. Is  a  reflection  of  uncertainty. That  there's  just  a  lot  of variability  in  the  system. We're  going  to  end  up  with  some of  these  really  hot  years. We  shouldn't  actually  pay too  much  attention  to  them, we  don't  really  know. This  is  from  a  couple  of  articles  from Centric  American  a  couple  of  years  ago. One  was  digging  into  some  of  the  results from  the  then  recently released  AR  six  reports. So  we're  going  to  be  drawing a  fair  amount  in  the  first  part  of this  course  on the  IPCC's  reports  on  climate  change. One  of  the  ways  that  they have  been  trying  to  dig  into  some of  the  ways  that  kind  is  going  to  change  is that  the  rate  at which  you're  going  to be  experiencing  certain  kinds  of hoards  is  increase  more  times. This  is  the  increase in  the  rate  of  experiencing  some  hazard. In  this  case,  heat  waves drop,  cough  failures,  floods, modifiers  and  tropical  cyclodes based  on  your  ages  in  2020. If  you  were  20  years  old  in  2020, then  you  would  expect  that the  second  set  of darknesses  of  colors  in  a  world that's  two  degrees  warmer, you're  going  to  expect  to  see  something  like 20  times  more  heat  waves then  you  would have  under  historical  conditions. That's  not  so  great because  it  show  here  we're  at, this  is  degrees  above  changes, this  is,  this  is  degrees  above average  over  historical  period in  the,  in  the  '50s. So  we're  already  about 1.25  degrees  above  that  period. At  that  point  we're  already about  25  degrees  above  pre  industrial. That's  to  say  that  we're  already probably  past  this  1.5  degree  warm  probably. Well,  on  our  way  to this  two  degree  warts  are  pretty  bad. And  what  that  means  is  going to  be  pretty  fantastical. As  we  see  the  world all  the  same  article in  the  same  Scientific  American, they  had  an  article  about  what  the  potential was  for  different  kinds of  trap  in  the  defendant  system. And  it  was  drawing on  some  experience  that  I  think  was  no fine  actually  had  with  Pin  there,  sorry. She  was  working  with some  students  around  a  model  that  basically let  them  play  around with  different  kinds  of  mitigation  actions, different  ways  to  reduce  defendants  change. And  one  of  the  things  they could  do  is  they  say,  okay, I  want  to  plant  1  billion  trees. What's  that  going  to,  how  much  carbon  dioxide is  going  to  take  up? And  they  try  to do  the  policy  and  then  find  out  that  actually it's  really  tough  to  find places  to  plant  1  billion  trees. And  species  that  thrive  in those  areas  are  going  to take  up  carbon  dioxide fast  enough  for  matter the  line  of  the  articles from  nuclear  power  plants where  a  lot  of people  think  of  the  nuclear  power, that's  a  really  good  solution,  right? Aside  from  the  risk  of nuclear,  nuclear  disasters  which, which  is  non  trivial, it's  a  clean  energy  source  from  clemsion. Be  clear,  can't  we  just  do  that? And  again,  it  turns  out  that scaling  up  nuclear  power  takes  so long  that  by  the  time  you got  the  electricity  system switch  over  in  any  significant portion  to  nuclear  power, you've  already  blown  through  a  lot  of these  climate  warming  thresholds. The  scale  of  the  problem is  big  and  the  scales  of the  solutions  are  mean to  be  similarly  big  if  we're  going  to have  a  chance  of actually  addressing  the  mission. Um,  I  really  like this  way  of  looking at  the  changes  to  the  climate  system  and sub  per  head  around  the  change  to  the  way the  whole  Earth  in  its  natural  environment  is going  to  operate  here. Cd.  Points  out  that about  10,000  years  ago in  the  height  of  the  last  ice  age, there  was  a  mile  ice on  top  of  this  neighborhood. This  is  neighborhood  now  you could  imagine  in  86  years, when  we're  at a  similar  change  in  temperature, 4.5  degrees  if  we  don't  change  things. Relative  to  today  than we  were  relative  today, relative  to  the  height  of  the  ice  age. Imagine  that  heats  are  going  to be  quite  different  and  we go  to  90  degrees  above  current  temperatures. Then  we  have a  historical  background  to  look  at. That  was  the  Cretaceous  hothouse  sea  level. Sea  levels  were  200 meters  above  where  they  are  today. There  were  no  glaciers. There  are  Pal  tries  in  the  poles. It  was  a  very,  very  different  world. It's  not  clear  what this  looks  like.  America,  these  two. Is  it  more  like  this  or  more  like  that? That  depends  on  a  lot  of  features  of climate  system  that  we're  really still  just  trying  to  get  a  handle  on. So  in  some  ways, climate  change  is the  central  challenge  of  our  time. And  part  of  why  you say  that  there  are  challenges that  are  happening  right  now, but  at  a  low  level, it  is  built  into every  aspect  of  the  way  our  economy  works. We  produce  carbon  emissions in  so  many  different  ways. The  only  way  that  we  could  imagine changing  climate  change  is  to  dig  down into  the  production  processes of  every  aspect  of  our  lives. We'll  be  discussing  losses that  we're  going  to  experience  and the  potential  for  addressing  those  losses, losses  that  we're  going  to  experience. We're  going  to  be  going  into  a  harsher, volatile  world. We're  going  to  have  to  talk  about losing  coastal  cities,  islands, biodiversity  from  a  habits  point  of  view. It's  going  to  make  sense  for  us  to  look  at different  ways  of  trying  to estimate  some  of  those  losses. Part  of  this  course  is  not  just about  me  telling  you what's  known  in  the  literature, it's  about  understanding  the  methods by  which  we  know  in  literature. So  we're  going  to  look  at  top  down, that  is  economy  y  estimates  of  losses  and bottom  up  sector  by sector  estimates  of  losses, search  and  tip  points  and linearities  have  to  say  about  all of  this  and  then  how  that interacts  with  a  whole  range of  form  issues involving  migration  consumption. There's  a  really  interesting  moment that  we're  at  where  there's, there's  sort  of  climate  change  aspects of  the  problem  by  climate  changes. There,  there  are  drivers  that  are pushing  us  toward  more  climate  change. The  current  way  that  we do  laser  laser  growth supports  the  more  climate  change, societal  the  which  we change  the  way  se produces  the  things  that  we  care  about. The  investment,  the  locking  that  we  have associated  with  that  because  there be  change,  climactic  inertia, the  globe  has  a  lot of  inertia  in  its  system  and  that's  going  to make  it  so  that it's  going  to  be  very  difficult  for  us to  fight  the  growth  of  prewriting  incentives. What  I  mean  by  the  Trump  factor  here is  the  way  in  which, as  example,  when  Trump pulled  out  of  Paris  commitment, lots  of  other  countries  started to  change  their  policies  to similarly  start  pulling  out of  Paris  commitments. We're  in  a  world  where  charismatic  people can  be  either  a  force for  transition  or  for  climate  change. Trump  is  one  of those  forces  for  climate  change. Switching  baselines  is  the  feature of  the  way  we  as humans  interact  with  all  these  changes. Because  they  happen  slowly. We  lose  track  of  what  the  world  used to  look  like  and  adjust  our  expectations, rather  than  trying  to  move towards  some  maximum  efficiency  or maximum  welfare  World  uncertainty  is itself  because  of  the  way  that our  policy  approach drugs  when  there's  uncertainty, it  makes  it  harder  for  us to  decide  what  to  do. The  ease  of  geo  engineering  is  actually a  feature  for  further  climate  change. It  turns  out  that It's  fairly  cheap. For  example,  there  are  a  few  different  ways, but  it's  fairly  cheap  to get  enough  airplanes  in the  air  spewing  out  aerosols, basically  just  in  the  upper  atmosphere, that  would  reflect  enough  sunlight to  cool  the  Earth, measure,  it's  not  too  expensive. A  large  country  like  the  US  or China  could  easily  decide  to unilaterally  do  geo  engineering at  the  scale  to  be  necessary  to  cool  in. That's  decided, reduce  the  risk  of certain  of  the  effect  we're  talking  about. It's  going  to  lower  the  temperatures. It's  not  going  to  encourage  us  to actually  deal  with  the  underlying  problem. And  it's  going  to result  in  burning  level  fossil  fuels  and having  a  lot  of  long  term  consequences for  that  at  the  same  time. So  that's,  that's  the  stuff that  we  have  to  be  worried  about. If  you're  like  me,  concerned about  us  trying  to  taksion, the  things  that  are  fighting for  transition  forest. There  is  so  much  technological  innovation and  learning  that  is  happening  so  rapidly. The  way  in  which renewable  energy  and  battery  storage has  reduced  to  price  has  blown  everyone  away. It  should  be  simply because  of  the  cheapness of  these  renewable  technologies. It  should  be  a  solved  problem. When  I  talk  to engineers  about  climate  change, what  I  hear  characterization but  character  here  is  basically  saying, why  are  you  still talking  about  climate  change? We  made  the  technology, we  fix  the  problem,  we're below  the  low  cost  of  coal. The  climate  change  problem  was,  if we  look  at  emissions,  it's  not  true. But  from  the  point  of  view  of the  innovators  in  some of  these  engineering  solutions, that  makes  a  lot  of  sense. Why  it's  to  economists, largely  because  of  some of  these  free  writing  incentives. The  answer  I  get  about the  fate  of  climate  change is  the  exact  opposite. They  say  there  is no  way  that  we  are  going  to  solve  this. We  just  have  to  accept  it  and  move  on. So  who  knows  by  the  way, which  way  this  will  go? We  have this  amazing  technological  motivation. There  are  double  triple  winds, which  is  to  say  changes that  reduce  carbon  dioxide, reduce  emissions  are  actually  going to  pay  for  themselves and  have  other  benefits. Besides,  if  you  look at  the  costs  of  mitigation, economy  wide  stable,  basically  to  reduce emissions  to  a  level  that would  keep  us  under  two  degrees, it's  percent  of  GDP. If  you  include  the  benefits  to  just  health, just  say  nothing  of  the, the  economies  by  infusing them  with  a  new  investment, it's  easy  to  get  large  negative  costs. Basically that  mitigation  will  pay  for  itself. We  have  an  international  process, UNC  process, and  the  Paris  Agreement  in  particular, is  a  way  by  which  we can  together  talk  about  what  needs  to  be done  and  ratchet  up the  commitments  to  the  point where  we  can  solve  this  problem. This  public  support  across  the  globe, people  generally  are  aware  of and  change  accepting  of the  changes  that  need  to  be  made. There's  a  lot  of  evidence that  when companies  go  and  make  these  changes, they  can  be  more  competitive. They  do  better  in  the  market. Why  wouldn't  we  solve  this  problem? I  don't  know  what's  going  to  happen. I  think  it's  going  to  be  really interesting  generation  I  see  here. Yeah,  it's  going  to  be a  really  exciting  transformation. We  have  to  go  from  basically  0%  going  to go  nearly  100%  fossil  fuel  world, two  0%  fossil  fuel  hund  percent  renewable energy  system  over the  course  of  two  generation, one  time  span  in  the  process, there's  a  real  potential  for  us  to create  a  healthier,  more  equitable  society. At  the  same  time,  the  world is  going  to  keep  changing  under  our  feet. From  a  purely  scientific  standpoint, that's  fascinating  from economic  economist  scientists  standpoint, it's  fascinating  to  see  the  way  that societies  and  economies  react to  all  the  things that  are  changing  around  them. Every  aspect  of  our  lives  will  be  changed  as a  result  of  this  effort. Whether  or  not  whether  or  not  the  effort  is successful  just  because  of how  many  things  are  changing, that's  my  motivation  for  why  this  matters. This  is  an  incredibly  exciting  moment to  be  learning  this  material. The  next  thing  in  the  deck  is basically  for  me  to  go  into  the  details of  how  we're  going  to  purse class  itself,  our  schedule  stuff. But  before  I  do  that, tell  if  you  guys  are  all  looking at  me  with  skepticism or  inspiration,  what  do  you  think? Any  reactions? Yeah,  please. The  past  point  of  0% possible  to  100%  mobile  system, Do  you  think  it's  sustainable  to  operate mobile  Because  some  of  it  is  viable. The  Signia,  is  it  sustainable? Currently  less  pbilithould  at least  accept  a  certain  percentage  of. So  we're  definitely  going  to  need  to  use some  amount  of  oil  or  gas, but  that  doesn't  have  to be  fossil  fuel,  right? You  can  run  a  transportation  system  by, you  can  run  it  on  biofuels. You  can  actually  convert between  any  of  the  available, any  form  of  energy  to  any  other  form of  energy  to  process. It's,  I  think  it's  a  good  point  that  we  might not  actually  need  to  go  to 100%  to  0%  fossil  fuels. We  could,  we  can  potentially capture  carbon  straight  from  the  air if  we  decide  that  we  need  to  want  to have  some  fossil  fuels. But  even  so,  we  have  to  get  it  way  down. This's  toys. Yes,  Yeah. Okay. So  here's  some  of  the, here's  the  big  questions  we're going  to  ask  in  this  course. What  risk  society  face  from  climate  change. How  can  people  first, how  many  people  firms  mitigate? By  the  way,  I'm  going to  use interchangeably  the  terms mitigation  and  abatement. Both  those  terms  mean  reducing  emissions. Both  of  them  are  really  flawed  up. Choice  of  word  wouldn't  necessarily think  that  mitigation means  reducing  emissions. But  within  climate  change, mitigation  reduce  emissions. How  can  people  in  firms  reduce  emissions? How  should  people,  firms  produce  emissions? How  do  we  make  that  decision? How  do  we  then  shape  policies  in  order  to encourage  or  require  those  kinds of  changes  and  apply? What  can  the  international  community do  and  how  do  we  coordinate  at an  international  level  to  supper  change from  the  questions  that you  guys  were  asking  about, why  your  motivations  for  coming  to  the  class. I  definitely  think  that  some  of  these  will be  or  just  some of  you  and  other  ones  to  others  of  you. I  think  we  probably  need  to talk  about  all  of  them  to  give a  synthetic  view of  everything  that's  going  on. But  this  course  has  a  lot  of  flexibility. We  can  shift  things  around. If  you  feel  like  there  are questions  that  we  have brought  up  but  didn't  spend  much  time. Let's,  let's  split  more  time on  those  particular  things because  the  benefit  of  sport, specially  for  all  of  your  grad  students, is  whatever  is  going to  best  support  your  research  or other  goals  that  you  have  correct, about  separate  from  science. Okay.  We'll  talk  a  little  bit. So  we're  going  to  be  talking  about the  economic  dimensions  of  climate  change. In  order  to  do  that,  I  have  to dig  into  some  of  the  climate  science. I'm  only  going  to  spend about  a  week  and  a  half  on  climate  science. But  it's  necessary  because it  feeds  into  how  we  do about  how  do  we estimate  the  future  impacts  of climate  change  on  comm  societies. What  do  we  do  with  potential  for  allocation? When  we're  talking  about  mitigation, we're  going  to  have  to  think  about the  costs  of  mitigation. Policy  instruments  like concentrated  carbon  taxes, implications  for  business international  cooperation. We'll  have  to  think  about  things like  the  free  writing  incentive. Then  we're  going  to  be  really focusing  on  quantitative understandings  of  these  issues. Part  economic  analysis,  not dependent  solely  on  past  economics. Because  the  approach  we  actually  inc, you'll  see  that  the  approach  that  we take  is  to dig  into  quantity  of  understanding  issues. And  then  draw  on  a  number of  different  kinds  of  approaches. Many  of  which  are  not  going  to  be simple  supply  demand  relationships  in order  to  understand  what's  going  on. The  key  thing  that  makes  this  economics  is that  we're  concerned  with the  decision  making  process. And  we're  interested  in  representing the  decision  making  process  mathematically  to fly  that  will  help  us better  understand  what's  possible and  how  incentivizing  bunch of  basic  assumptions  that  we're  going  to  be, not  talking  about  too  much, but  this  would  be  a  good  time to  dig  into  them  if  we  want  to. So  we're  going  to  in general  assume the  bollowingd  changes  happening, It's  caused  by  human  driven greenhouse  gas  emissions,  ore, mostly  bad  reasons  for  bins, and  a  few  good  reasons  for  Deb, reasonable  reasons  for  being skeptical  about  certain  aspects  of  that. But  for  the  most  part  this is  a  fact  of  climate  physics. We're  mostly  just  as  move on  to  climate  change  is already  harming  people  and  we  can mitigate  those  impacts  for  re  emissions. The  piece  that  takes  that  the  potential  for human  agency  and  says  not only  or  humans  doing something  but  we  could  do  something  else. All  right,  there's  actually a  role  for  policy  here. And  not  only  is  there  role  for  policy, but  there's  a  positional  goal  of  policy. Let's  try  to  reduce the  harm  that  change  is  causing. We  could  have  multiple  different goals  as  economists, but  one  of  those  goals  should  be to  increase  or  maximize  human  welfare. Measure  part  safely. Let's  do  things  but there's  when  we're  getting to  policies  and  want  to  try  to  evaluate  them, we're  going  to  be  usually  assuming that  what  we  want  to  do  with that  policy  is  to  increase, does  this  all  seem  reasonable, Asserting  assumptions. So  if  you're  probably onboard  with  those  assumptions, this  might  not  be  a  good  course  for you  if  you  have an  aversion  to  marital  purchase. Might  be  a  good  course  for  you or  like  for  condos  way  of  thinking. And  again,  how  I'm presenting  a  conus  way  of  thinking to  tell  you  here is  that  humans  can be  quantitative  and  modeled. And  that  there  are  vast simplifying  assumptions that  we  can  make  in  those  models  that are  still  informative  about how  policy  policy  can  do. For  example,  the  whole  idea of  welfare  is  a  vast  simplification. Yet  once  you  quantify  welfare, once  you  put  your  models, you  can  do  a  lot  of  interesting  things. So  that's  why  I'm  going  to  do  it. If  you  have  a  spirit  of  dislike of  that  process, that  would  be  pretty  good. Not  like  this  course,  all of  you  signed  up  for the  Mask  688  version  of  the  course. I  split  this  up  into two  versions  of  the  course  because  of that  bimodal  distribution  in rates  and  outcomes  synder from  the  last  time  I  call  the  course. Basically  what  I  found  was that  some  people  really struggled  and  some  people. Wanted  more. I  have  more  to dig  into  all  the  stuff  that  we  talk  about, but  I  haven't  tried  to change  the  level  of  the  lectures. Instead  what  I've  tried  to  do  is  offer, choose  your  own  adventure between  different options  for  the  assignments. I'm  going  to  say  that  even  though this  is  listed  as  an  undergrad  red  course, you  guys  all  have  the  choice based  on  what  you're trying  to  get  out  of  the  class to  do  the  undergrad  or  the  grad  thing. Let  me  tell  you  what  that is  for  the  readings. The  underwat  thing  is textbook  can  tell  you  about  the  textbook. The  textbook  is  Time  Economics  by  Richard. Richard  is  a  very  interesting  character. If  I  had  a  similarly  good  option, I  would  not  have  chosen. Mister's  book  is  a  bit  of  a  notorious, but  he  wrote  the  right  book. And  what  that  means  is this  book  has  a  fantastic  level. Is  the  right  level  of  quantitative  for. He'll  show  you  equations  when you  need  to  see  things  through equations  will  show  you  graphs. We  see  through  graphs, even  has  this  nice  way  of delineating  what,  what's  basic  knowledge. So  each  section  that has  two  stars  means  it's  basic  knowledge. Everyone  courses  three  stars, Master's  level  knowledge. Anything  that's  four  stars  level  knowledge. It's  a  nice  course  written  by a  nice  nice  person if  you  want textbook  chapters,  a  combination  of  this. And  it's  going  to  be  from  the  Term  Review, which  was  published  now  like  15  years  ago. And  it's  still  mostly accurate  and  very  much  in line  with  the  way  that  people today  understand the  economic  challenges  mentioned. If  you  do  the  grad level  version  of  the  first, that's  going  to  be  Aim  papers. So  those  academic  papers are  not  always  going  to have  all  of  the  foundational  information. If  you're  doing  the  relevant, of  course  it's  on  you  to  potentially go  back  to  the  textbooks if  you  feel  like  you're  missing  something L  because  the  academic  papers are  necessarily  going  to  speak  to. That  said,  I've  chosen  most  academic  papers, they  give  overviews  of relevant  issues  rather  than  digo, very  specific  academic  issues. The  4.8  version  of  course  is  mostly  going  to be  S.  The  main  assignments of  the  course  are  labs, six  labs  of  the  course. Within  those  labs,  there are  a  number  of  exercises. In  the  688  version  of  the  course, there's  some  open  ended  pieces. In  the  48  version  of  the  course, there's  more  exercises. Someone  who  is  interested  in doing  research  in an  adjacent  field  would  get  a  lot  out  of. Someone  who  just  wants  to  understand all  the  issues  will get  more  out  of  the  fusion. When  it  comes  to  the  final  in  the  class, it's  going  to  be  consistent with  whatever  choice  you  make. You  have  the  option  of  switching  back switching  in  the  course as  long  as  you  don't  do  it  too  much. So  I'm  going  to  ask  you probably  with  a  little  survey on  campus  to  choose how  you'd  like  to  do  the  course  for  down. And  then  if  you  want  to  change  it, you  can  change  it  later. And  hopefully  to  just  like  craft  the  final, can  choose  the  questions  for  each  of  you that  fit  with  the  path  you  take  the  course. In  some  cases  you  might  imagine  wanting the  more  undergrad  for  grass  pejorative, the  more  directed  approach for  some  of  the  topics  that  you're  less interested  in  and  the more  self  directed  approach for  topics  that  you're  interested  in. I'm  okay  with  that  kind  of  thing. So  choose  your  own  adventure. As  long  as  you work  with  me  to  make  sure that  it  doesn't  make  too  much  extra  work. I  have  both  of  these. Open,  Apparently,  my  technique of  scaring  people  away  to supimdal  distribution scare  away  all  the  undergrads, which  means  we  can make  the  undergrad  version  of  the  course. What  would  actually  be  useful  to Reds  yourselves  if  you  want  to  do  that? Questions  about  that  oddity  of  the  course. Just  to  think  a little  bit  about  what  does  rigor mean  when  we're  talking  about  climate  change? The  interactions  between  climates and  the  economy  are  incredibly  complex. In  general,  simple  graphical  models, like  the  one  I  have  here,  models are  going  to  be  very  useful  for standing  issues. We  actually  will  be  talking  about that,  that's  going  to  come  in. We're  talking  about  cap  and trade  and  carbon  taxes, but  usually  are  quantitative  Explanations of  things  are  going  to  look  more  like  this. This  is  a  description of  how  weather  is  related  to  climate. On  the  top,  it's  one  of  the  acamic  readings, might  actually  from the  same  economic  reading. This  is  a  description  of  how  crop, land  and  temperatures  overlap. When  we  actually  into one  of  these  things  on  the  slide, I'll  do  my  best  to  explain  it, but  don't  be  surprised that  I'm  going  to  be  showing  you graphs  and  things  to  try  to explain  various  topics.  Fine  change. Econs  is  interdisciplinary. It's  going  to  be  digging  into topics  and  knowledge  that's  relevant from  a  lot  of  different  disciplines, including  natural  science, bio  physical  approaches  of understanding  a  lot of  different  systems  including agriculture  and  health  and  energy  systems, and  also  economics  and  policy. Okay,  my  girls,  to  introduce  you  to the  frontier  of economic  knowledge  in  this  area. Part  of  Joe  is  going  to  be expose  you  to  the  key  methods  that are  being  used  to  push  forward that  frontier  with  basic  natural  science. One  of  the  main  tools that's  used  to  understand the  client  system is  grated  circulation  models. Earth  system  models as  many  of  them  are  called. Now  in  the  first  lab, we'll  dig  into  some  of  the  data  that's coming  out  of  grit  circulation  models. We'll  do  some  work  in  climate  econometrics. One  of  the  main  approaches  that's  being  used, really  breaking  a  lot  of rapidly  in  terms  of  understanding  the  impacts of  change  reassessment  model, those  models  that  bring  together  climate  and economics  as  a  way of  understanding  the  potential  for  policy. Game  theory  is  going  to  come  in  strongly, but  mostly  when  we  talk about  international  policy  because  of the  way  that  you understand  that  international  policy issue  as  a  game. We're  going  to  have  these  lectures. The  lectures  are  boding  intuition. We're  going  to  assume  some  level of  lay  economic  concepts. Supply,  demand,  profit, microeconomic,  GDP  growth. I'll  have  equations.  Just  going  to put  the  equations  out there  without  explanation. Most  issues  will  be  presented  graphically. Lab  attendants  are  biting, experience  walking  through  the  steps  of specific  new  methods  and  LC  LCs and  hopefully  trying  to  push  you  to understand  the  process and  what  results  you  get. A  The  lab  is  actually  the  labs, certainly  or  yes,  the  labs. All  right.  I  call  them  labs because  it's  like  here's some  data  and  here's  the  questions. You  want  to  now  experiment  with  your  data  by doing  these  things.  Pretty  cool. I'm  just  trying  to  see  if  I  can  do that  in  the  future  version  of  the  course. So  I  introduced  this  I in  my  last  semester.  We  now  have. Able  to  artificial  intelligence. Artificial  intelligence  has  the  ability  to  be a  better  teaching  assistant  than  any  I've actually  any  human  teachers I've  ever  actually  work  with. Partly  because  they're  available  all  the  time and  have  a  level of  patience  and  explaining  topics that  even  some  of the  best  human  teaching assistants  failed  to  have. There's  no  CC'ial  intelligence. It's  available  to  you.  I'm  going  to  be doing  a  lot  more than  what  I  did  last  semester.  Last  semester. It  currently  what  it  has  lastester has  the  Solvus  and then  it  knows  everything  about  the  world. But  this  time  I'm  actually  going  to  feed it  the  recordings  of  lectures, the  homework  assignments, the  lab  assignments. It's  going  to  have  all of  the  content  of  the  course, hopefully  be  able  to  answer questions  you  have  about  anything. But  yeah,  it's  up  and  so  you  can ask.  It's  a  good  question. Talking  about  text  looks  course. Yes.  All  right. You  know, I  didn't  realize  that's  what  I'm  assuming  it, but  make  sounds  sure. So  hopefully  that'll  be  useful. I'm  very  open  to  you  guys telling  me  about  useful  things  that this  could  do  that  it's  coming  up  doing. I'm  always  developing my  own  artificial  intelligence to  support  my  own  research. And  bringing  it  into  the  class  is just  a  nice  way  to  have an  extra  excuse  to  play  around  with  AI  stuff. Or  I  personally  just signed  up  for  the  I  and  I  will  surround  it. It's  super  cheap. It's  like  the  API  GPT  foles paying  for  T  cost  $20  a  month. I  use  this  thing  all  the time  as  through  the  guy and  it's,  it's  half  the  price. So  if  you  want  to use  this  and  then,  you  know, I  ended  up  spending  interest  as the  it  turns  out  to  be  crazy. She  Okay. What  she  say  in  here? Yeah,  I  need  to  actually  put  this  out. Probably  an  announcement  but  it's  it's a  CCE  con  dot  work  is  one  of  my  servers. Okay.  I  said  first  couple  weeks on  what's  relevant  to  replate  science  for  us. We're  going  to  also  talk  a  little  bit about  uncertainty  since  that's the  one  of  the  key  features of  the  natural  science  process that's  going  to  be relevant  for  all  the  academics  that conduct  that  one  week, 31  way  or  another. Things  always  end  up  taking  a  long  time, but  I'm  going  to  switch over  to  actually  getting  into the  non  natural  science  parts of  the  course  starting with  impacts  and  adaptation. We'll  spend  a  quarter  of  the  course  on  that, a  quarter  of  the  course  on  more  on  that, on  emissions  and  mitigation  in  the  mid. Jeremy  Firestone  is  going  to be  coming  guest  lecture. Jeremy  Firestone  is  a  Jeremy  Firestone is  as  marine  school, but  works  on  issues  around offshore  winds  and  a  whole  range of  climate  policy  that  surrounds  it. So  he's  going  to  have  a  ton  of relies  for  us  to  care  about. Then  at  the  end  of  course,  into international  dimensions  and  try to  to  bring  it  up  together. This  is  just  to  show  sort  of how  the  labs  are  going  to  line  up. With  that,  starting  next  week, we'll  put  out  the  first  file  three  to  accept. The  Grady  is  also  a  little different  between  these  two pathways  through  the  course. Almost  everything  is  the  same. There's  going  to  be  weekly  reading. I  said  engagement  because in  the  first  version,  of  course, I  used  an  online  tool  for, I'm  going  to  use  this exit  ticket,  think  instead,  but Mentioned  that  in  it.  So  at  12%  of  the  course is  some  way  to ensure  that  you're  doing  the  readings. If  you  do  the  48  version  of  the  course, then  actually  8%  of your  grade  is  just  showing  up  being  involved. If  you're  doing  the  68  version  of  the  course, then  you'll  do  a  presentation of  some  academic  paper. I  have  a  ton  of  suggestions. You  can  also  find  your  O. Then  most  of  the  course  grade is  the  homework  assignments, these  love  assignments. This  is  a  final  exam, it's  going  to  really  focus  on  concepts  rather than  doing  gypsy  graph  map  parsers  something. The  hope  is  that  if  you  understand suturset  the  labs  are going  to  focus  on  methodologies. Certainty  is  going  to  be  how  do you  use  client  data  con  metrics, how  do  you  estimate interpose  response  functions. Cost  benefit  assessment  is  going to  talk  about  how  you  build integrated  assessment  modeling  and  do cost  assessment  around  economics  for  work. To  get  a  class  simulation  like  a  wet, except  it's  going  to  involve  concentrate. The  five  is  going  to  be  two  of  three, putting  out,  trying  to discuss  benefit  aysis  into  optimal  pathways. What's  the,  what's  the  optimal  way  of managing  climate  change  mitigation, accounting  for  costs? And  so  it's  going  to  be  in  some  optimization. And  then  international  cooperation with  a  focus  in  St, okay,  All  lives  are  going  to  be  in  our. Either  R  is  either  going  to  be  used for  just  some  data  management, plotting  and  squ  analysis and  I'll  be  introducing you  to  how  to  do  all  those  things. Or  I'm  going  to  be  in  some  cases building  up  some  our  infrastructure, some  R  functions  and  things that  all  be  asking you  to  understand  and then  make  modifications  of. You're  going  to  in  general as  you're  not  going to  be  asked  to  write  large  piece  of  our  code, but  you're  going  to  be  asked  to understand  how  to  call  different  functions, how  to  interact  with. Code  is  a  school  environment,  it's  free. It  has  a  really great  interdisciplinary  community of  people  who  are  doing a  bunch  of  things  around  climate  data, commetrics,  bunch  of  other  things. You'll  want  to  download  our  studio and  we'll  be  doing a  basic  intro  to  R  on  Thursday. Then  we,  during  the  pectus over  the  course  of  the  semester, we'll  talk  about  different  things  you  can  do, give  you  more  experience  with  it here  has  worked. Let's  be  okay. That  paper  presentation,  so  you know  the  mechanics  of  it. That  link  which  is  available  on  Canvas, in  it's  curly  just  available. It's  actually  available in  assignment  of  Canvas. I  mean,  Ps,  I will  links  to  a  spreadsheet  which looks  like  this  and basically  it  shows  the  weeks  and  then shows  a  bunch  of  suggestions  of different  papers  that  they  could  present. Some  of  them  are  specific  applications, some  of  them  are  methods  papers. Some  of  them  are  what  I  call  class  readings. They're like  introductions  of  different  sorts. You  can  also  bring  in  your  own  paper, just  check  it  with  me  then. These  presentations  are basically  15  minutes  of you  walking  through  what's the  literature  behind  it, what  the  paper  did  or  what  it's  introducing. Results  discussion,  if  so, for  reputing  the  grad  student  approach. But  I'm,  I'm  looking  for  you  to  be somewhat  of  a  critical  discussant of  these  papers. So  don't  just  think about  what  the  paper  itself  is  telling  you. Think  about  what  it's, what  the  problems  it  may  have, what  ways  it  could  be  improved, smarts,  what's  being  missed. We  can  sort  of  use  it  as  an  opportunity to  think  about  what, what's  in  the  research. Okay,  and  this  is  my  last  slide of  this  presentation. So  what  sort  of  questions  should  I  be able  to  answer  after  taking  this  course? Which  of  the  following  sources  of uncertainty  is  going  to be  greatest  at  the  end  of  the  century? It's  a  fairly  concrete  question I  put  in  there  because  it's, it  was  on  a  previous  final. Is  it  initial  dit  certainty  is  emissions? Uncertainty  is  the  uncertainty, or  what  relationship  exists between  vulnerability  to climate  change,  Neo  development. What  is  capitrate  more  efficient  than carbon  tax?  What  are  the  barriers? Innovation  of  low  carbon  technologies in  the  power  policies  transpired. Comdm,  the  pledge  and  review  models  model of  special  operation  of  climate  change. How  might  the  Paris  Green  resulted  in a  successful  transition  and  how  might  fail? The  reason  that  these are  worded  the  way  they  are is  because  they  were all  either  questions  like chronopinals  or  questions  I consider  finals  for  either the  first  one  is  a  multiple  choice, others  as  little  essays. But  there  are  a  lot  of underlying  things  in  all  of these  questions  that we'll  be  able  to  dig  into, so  you  can  understand what  questions  you've  been  asking, so  you  can  understand what  the  answers  might  be. That's  my  introduction,  of  course,  whatever. So  we  have  some  time remaining  with  which  we'll  get into  the  climate  science.  Pause. What  questions  do  you  guys  have? You  mention  the  first  side, see  how  recent,  what  part of  the  bakers?  Yeah. So  that's  going  to  be under  our  mitigation  part  of  the  course. That's  place  for  we get  to the  interesting  aspects  of  that  question. Because  firms  have  firms respond  to  policies  in  particular  ways. We  want  to  understand  the  incentives that  a  policy  will  have  on  the  firm. And  then  when  you, I'm  trying  to  take  into  this  question. So  there's  sort  of, there  are  a  number  of  questions  that the  firm  has  to answer  around  its  long  term and  short  term  profits. And  so  we  want  to  understand how  policies  and  firms  in  tracts  put  into  it. It  turns  out  that  now there  are  more  companies that  are  thinking  about the  impacts  that  they  expect  to  experience. Because  even  if  those  impacts  are potentially  going  to  evolve over  a  much  longer  period  of  time, the  potential  for  getting a  bad  impact particular  year  is  getting  higher  and  higher. Then  we  have  to  worry  about the  PR  fall  out of  not  having  been  prepared  for  it. I  just  told  you  that  most of  we're  just  going  to  talk  about firms  in  the  mitigation  side  of  this. I  think  there's more  and  more  information  that's  coming out  about  how  firms  are  thinking about  the  impact  side  of  this. I'll  try  to  put  some  study  in, but  it's, it's,  it's  becoming  more  important  issue. Okay. So  you  mentioned  earlier  in the  slides  that  there  was a  numerical  component  to  it. So  for  like  environmental  econ, we  did  like  conceptually. And  then  there  was  also some  mathematical  sections  where we  use  like  derivatives and  integrals  and  things  like  that. And  I  was  wondering  what  type  of like  the  breadth  of the  mathematical  part  of  this  course, what  we  should  be  proficient. The  main  role  that  Mathebax  is  going  to  have is  similar  to  the  way  that we're  doing  couplings  mathematical  literacy, which  is  to  say,  if  we  say  that  for  example, there's  a  thing  as well  which  says  that  total  emissions  is  going to  be  equal  to  the  product of  population  times  capita  times  emissions per  unit  of  GP. Another  turn  there  if  you  want  to. That's,  that's expression.  It's  a  very  simple  one. But  then  what  we  want  to  do  is,  for  example, take  logs  at  both  sides  and  turn  this into  an  expression  in  terms  of  birth  rates. You  say, look,  here's  the  way  the  map works  to  turn  into  birth  rates. But  you'll  be,  you'll  have to  sort  of  stay  on board  with  verifications  of that  as  we  go  through, when  we  econometric  part  of  this, we're  going  to  have  regression  equations, multivariate  regression  equations  that have  a  bunch  of indicator  variables you  haven't  done  econometrics, which  people  who  haven't  done  program  are, you're  going  to  have  to  metrics. I'm  not  expecting  that  you'll know  how  to  write  those  equations, but  we're  going  to  talk about  what  the coefficients  on  each  of  those  terms. They're  going  to  end  up being  a  marginal  elect, which  means  a  measurement  of  the  slope  of  Y. So  you'll  have  to  think  about,  okay,  I  got, I  got  this  expression which  I'm  measuring  a  bunch  of  slopes. What  does  that  mean  for  what happens  to  the  own  comparable  well, by  increase  this  one,  that's  going  to decrease  that  convertabley  increase  this  one. That's  going  increase that  comparable  kind  of. That's  a  good  answer,  but  let's  help. Any  other  questions?  Let  me send  the  last  15  minutes,  okay? Okay,  get  into  a  little  bit  of content  so  you  don't  just doing,  talking  about  force. I'm  going  to  get  a  little  bit into  the  basic  physics  of greenhouse  gases  and a  little  bit  into  feedback  effects. And  then  we're  going  to  be  building  up  to an  understanding  of  how  this  act, how  this  attracts  to  produce Un  implications  of  that. Possibly  getting  Ti  points  as  well, so  a  couple  of  very  high  level  points. This  is  a  beautiful  National  Geographic  cover where  you  could  flip  over  the  magazine. And  one  side  of  it  was how  we  save  the  planet. The  other  side  was  how we  destroyed  the  planet. And  then  it  had  different  articles about  things supporting  result  in  destruction  of  plants. The  planet  is  changing  rapidly. We're  already  experiencing  a  ton of  impacts  across  a  ton of  different  sectors  and to  different  areas  of  flow. As  a  said,  keep emitting  the  way  we've  been  emitting, The  world's  going  to  look  very  different  and adjusting  climate  change  is  going  to  require both  strong  mediation  and  adaptation. About  even  as  recently as  five  years  ago  though, the  more  about  ten  years  ago  at the  height  of  when the  para  scribage  was  coming  out, talking  about  adaptation  in  a  context  where, where  we're  digging  into  solutions. Climate  change  was  considered  a  big, no  one  wants  to  hear  about adaptation  because  they  said, look,  have  to  do  is  just  stop  climate  change. And  if  we  can  stop  climate  change, don't  to  worry  about  adaptation. But  if  you  talk  about  adaptation  and  you have  one  trying  to  invest  adaptation, then  people  are  going  to stop  trying  to  stop  climate  change. We're  just  going  to  accept  it. But  because  we're  now  in  a  world where  people  are  adapting, people  are  feeling  the  impacts, there's  no  way  to  imagine  a  world where  we  can  only solve  the  underlying  problem. We  actually  have  to  imagine  solving both  the  mitigation  problem  and the  adaptation  problem  simultaneously. Climate  change  has The  science  of  climate  change brings  up,  I  think, four  main  points  that make  this  problem  particularly  challenging. Issues  come  out  of the  science  that  are  then  going  to inform  the  way  that  we  think about  the  economics. Climate  change  is  global,  long  terms, catastrophic  with  irreversible  impacts and  construction, Stern  sort  of  lays  one  of those  hours  in  2006. What  do  I  mean  by  let's  go  to  effect 15  rate  it's  global. In  terms  of  the  way  change, the  problem  of  climate  change  comes  about, it  doesn't  matter  where  you  are, if  you  emit  CO  two, it's  going  to  go  up  into  the  atmosphere  and quickly  become  a  global  problem. It's  not  going  to  stay  global because  it's  a  CO  two, anytime, anytime  that  anyone  contributes  to  it, they're  also  contributing  to impacts  that  happen  across  the  boat. There  impacts  that  happen everywhere  by different  impacts  in  different  places. Some  impacts  or  worse  in  the  tropics. Some  impacts  are  worse  in  the  poles, some  impacts  are  worse  regions, some  force  and  so  on. And  so  also  it's  global  because  there's no  way  that  one  country can  solve  this  on  its  own. There  are  too  many  countries contributing  too  much  in  terms  of a  portion  of  the  problem to  solve  this  unilaterally  global  problem. On  that,  sorry  for  the  night  question. Example,  cities  or  urban  areas. Our  cities  have  worse  quality because  sal  problems  a  polluter  in  China, travel  to  the  United  States, or  how  far  is  it? Carbide  is  going  to  fairly  rapidly  go  global. There's  this  carbon  dioxide that  I  met  today  is  going  to  be  in the  atmosphere  for  100, 400  years  would be  a  reasonable  approximation. There's  a  long  table  on  that. That  means  that  there's  no  distance  in space  or  reasonable  distance  in  time  to get  away  from  this  two  pollution. It's  going  to  affect  everyone  and everyone  for  generations  usually. I  try  not  to  think  about  this  as  pollution though  because  CO  two is  potentially  as  something that's  been  in  the  atmosphere. It's  a  natural  aspect  of natural  component  of  the  atmosphere. It's  not  like  we  were  the  first  thing to  produce  two  times  distutu  atmosphere. It's  really,  it's  gas that's  in  the  atmosphere  and  we're  making more  of  like  gas  that  is  beneficial.  Yeah. That  dig  into  what  you're  asking  me  to. Yeah. There's  really  no  it's  it's  not  balk. It's  long  term  emissions that  you  admit  today  are  going  to continue  to  impact  climate  for  centuries. There's  this  long  term  effect that  is  basically  irreversible, at  least  with  current  technology. Climate  change  is  long  term because  there's  inertion. Climate  system,  climate  is going  to  continue  to  evolve even  after  we've  stopped  any  more. One  of  the  reasons  for  this  is that  it  takes  a  long  time. For  example,  glacier  melt. It  could  be  that  we've  change  the  atmosphere enough  that  most  of Greenland  is  going  to  no  longer  be  covered, but  it's  going  to  take  hundreds, thousands  of  years  before gland  will  stop  covered  with  ice. The  climate  system  is  going  to  continue to  react  and  change  to the  gradual  decline  of  ice  in gland  Over  the  course  of  the  whole  time. These  things  evolve  very  slowly. It's  interesting  when  we're  thinking about  the  costs  and  benefits, for  example,  of  actions  that  we  do  today. Essentially  has  with  your  reversible  impacts. The  climate  system, it  turns  out,  is  pretty  chaotic. There  are  aspects  of  it  that  are  very  stable. There  are  other  aspects  of  it that  have  the  potential for  wide  and  rapid  swings. We  don't  know  what  ways  we  can push  the  environment  and it'll  bounce  back  in  which  ways. If  we  push  it,  it  will into  a  very  different  world. That's  part  of  the  insurgency of  climate  change. There's  another  side  here that  talks  about  the, the  potential  for  very high  temperature  changes when  we  increase  CO, two  in  all  likelihood  by the  end  of  the  century  under current  style  emissions, we're  going  to  be  at  two levels  that  are  somewhere around  3.5  degrees,  3-4  degrees. But  there's  a  possibility,  and not  even  a  small  one, that  will  actually  be  in  a  world  that is  90  degrees.  We  don't  know. There's  potentially  catastrophic  outcomes that  are  possible  within  the  Earth  system. A  lot  of  those  physical  changes  in  climate are  for  all  economic  intents and  purposes,  irreversible. Once  we've  set  something  in  motion, it  may  have  an  inertia so  strong  that  we  can't  roll  it  back. In  general,  send  two out  of  the  atmosphere  is  one  of  those  things. Once  you  disperse  two  into  the  atmosphere, it's  really  tough  to  collect it  and  put  it  back  in  the  ground. It  turns  out  that  we  can  do  this, but,  but  not  very  well. And  potentially  not  at  the  level  we  need  to, for  example,  to  reverse the  change  that  we've  already  experienced. And  then  there's  potential  for  two  points about  climate  change  because the  has  this  ability  to  sort of  non  linearly  react to  the  changes  that  we  impose  on  it. And  all  this  connects to  climate  change  being  uncertain. So  we  know  a  lot  about  the  drivers  of  change, but  we  don't  know  that  much  about  what the  long  term  consequences  of  putting all  this  CO  two  and  other  greenhouse  gases into  the  atmosphere  are  going  to be  for  climate  and much  less  for  human  societies. There's  uncertainty  around  the  scale. Farming  is  uncertainty  around  future  impacts. Not  only  is  there  this  uncertainty, but  it's  deep  uncertainty. It's  not  quantified. Different  experts  will  describe that  uncertainty  in  different  ways. If  you  imagine  this  quantified  approach to  all  this  stuff  that  I  keep  talking  about, but  I'm  not  actually  suing,  you can  imagine  probability  distributions, that  would  be  a  concrete quantified  wave  representing  insurgents. But  it  turns  out that  different  modeling  teams, different  experts  will  produce  for  you very  different  looking  distributions. That  means  that  we  don't  actually  have classic  uncertainty for  describes  these  things. The  surges  increase  as we're  looking  to  the  future. The  more  you  interact the  different  aspects  of  the  times  with differ  aspects  of  the  metal  environment, the  more  uncertain  everything  gets. This  is  the  perfect  place  to  stop. I  was  going  to  get  into some  actual  specifics  about  physics, but  we'll  do  that  next  time  on Thursday  that  I  have  time  for  the  last  thing. So  this  is  the  exit  ticket  that was  talking  about  the  last  minute.
