Hey,  need  sorry  that  you're  still  fating into  the  weather.  How's  it  going? Yeah,  I  know,  I  I  don't  know  what  this  is, but  it's  kicking  my  butt right  now,  that's  for  sure. Hopefully,  not  some  sort  of  long  covid. But  yeah,  it  wasn't  covid. I  tested  negative  twice  for  that, so  I  don't  know  what  it  is.  Not  great. Yeah,  this  has  been  like  four  days  now. Yeah,  it's  been  four  days  on. One  of  my  friends  over the  weekend  had  had  something  and  it  lasted like  five  days  and  he  thought he  was  fine  and  then met  up  with  him  and  probably  wasn't  fine,  so. I'm  sorry.  Hopefully  we'll be  all  set  by  next  week. Yeah.  Yeah.  Hopefully,  I'm gonna  leave  the  audio  here, Sage,  when  the  room  connects. You  don't  get  feedback.  Yeah. I'll  check  it  covers  here. Okay.  So  I  want  to  go through  a  few  of the  slides  that  I  missed  from last  time  and  then  visitation. And  then  I  got  a  bunch of  stuff  I  wanted  to  talk  about  with brief,  final  thoughts.  Just  another  way to  break  down  this  process  of going  from  physical  risks  to  economic  risks. We've  talked  about  some  hazards like  heatwaves. Classic  hazard  going  into  a  biophysical, impacted  by  biophysical  models. And  the  transition  there  is, you  need  to  know  something about  the  exposure  of the  system  to  the  hazard. Additionally, also  the  sensitivity  of the  system,  the  hazard. But  often  we  just  sort  of assume  that  there's  a, there's  an  underlying  physical  process  that just  respond  to  hazards in  the  same  way  everywhere. So  often,  often  you  don't  inc, sort  of  vulnerability  sensity  at  that  point. But  then  there  are two  general  forms  of  economic  impacts. When  we  go  into  what  we're  going  for, physical  impacts  and  economic impacts  and  they're both  under  the  general  welfare  losses. We  want  to  know  what the  consequences  for  city  are, what  the  damages  are. So  damages  are  another  word  for welfare  losses  that  correspond to  those  biophysical  impacts. In  some  cases  the  welfare  loss is  going  to  exactly  correspond to  just  the  price of  the  thing  that  we're  losing times  the  quantity  of  things  that  we've  lost. That's  a  case  where the  thing  that  we're  losing  is  marketed  good. The  price  is  some  sort of  reflection  of  how  much people  value  that  good. And  so  we  know immediately  what the  welfare  loss  of  society  is. That  would  be  things  like  a  quarter  loss and  labor  productivity. But  labor  productivity  also has  no  market  losses. There  are  losses  to  the  well  being  of people  who  are  having their  labor productivity  tax  rates  such  as  that. They're  less  productive  and  so  they produce  less  output  for  the  firms. They're  also  more miserable  with  whatever  out. That's  one  market  loss. Another  kind  of non  market  loss  would  be  mortality. When  we  have  to  turn that  into  an  estimate  of  level  society  is, in  this  case,  we  can  use the  value  of  sister  for  labor  productivity. We  have  to  be  a  little  bit more  clever  because  there's  not  a I  go  to  number and  probably  how  much  welfare  is  lost, how  much  we  is  lost. A  differs  by  temperature, but  a  set  of  paper  going  through actually  rejected  for  me to  off  and  go  back out  for  providing  the  other  number  lost. So  we've  got  both  of  those  losses. And  then  if  you  want  to  understand the  total  loss  to  society, then  we  need  to  add  those  up. We  need  to  aggregate  them  in  some  form. The  reason  I'm  using this  general  term  aggregation is  there  are  different  ways  you  can imagine  combining  across  sectors. One  way  is  you have  a  bunch  of  different  losses. And  you  have  one  aggregation  usually that's  not  consider  standards, it's  not  good  enough  because  they're  going  to be  adjustments  across  the  economy as  different  parts  of the  economy  get,  get  hit. A  more  common, the  more  complicated  way  of doing  thatation  would  be  to put  these  impacts  into computational  generallipy  model  that would  then  give  you  the total  loss  to  the  economy. Where  this  fits  in  with CG  is  a  little  bit  confusing. I  have  another  sub  slides about  the  exact  pathway  here. But  CG  models  generally want  to  have  productivity  losses. So  sometimes  a  bifiscal  loss usually  can't  handle  our  market  losses, but  the  segregation  process. But  then  you  can  come  up  with the  total  economy  wide  loss. And  why  is  that  important? Once  you  have  that,  you  can  start making  policy  decisions  often, particularly  when  we're talking  about  mitigation  policy. We're  not  going  to  be  trading off  the  cost  of  doing, going  out  a  whole  green  energy  system compared  to  just  like  losses. We're  talking  about  the  cost  of  going  on green  energy  system  compared  to all  the  benefits  that  are  we're  going  to  get. And  that's  going  to  be  a different  welfare losses  that  we'll  be  working. A  couple  of  things  that  we  know about  economic  losses  is  a pretty  basic  but,  but  worth  mentioning. The  first  is  that  economic  damages increase  at  higher  temperatures. So  this  is  from  a  risk  assessment  for  the  US. And  not  spartingly, as  you  go  to  higher  temperatures, this  continues  to  increase. But  more  importantly  as you  go  to  higher  temperatures, it  increases  at  an  increasing  rate. All  right,  so  the  marginal  loss for  margins  increasing  tempt. And  then  the  second  one  is the  inequality  and  heterogeneity  matter. And  in  particular,  the poor  are  the  most vulnerable  and  they're  the  hardest. Poor  people, forgiving  impacts,  lose  more  welfare. They  lose  more  welfare because  they're  already  poor and  any  impact  is  going  to  get  them  more. They're  also  losing more  welfare  because  they  have fewer  so  that  they don't  have  as  much  backup  opportunity. So,  so  if  they  lose  their  house, they  don't  have  another  house, they're  the  hardest. Not  just  because  they're  more  vulnerable, but  also  because  there  are  poor  people  are  in the  hottest  places  across most  regions  in  the  US, poor  people  are  in  the  hottest  regions which  are  going  to  get  most hazards  across  the  world. The  tropics  are  port  places  in  the  world. This  is  from  that  same  assessment and  it  says  here, across  all  sectors,  the  poorest  10% are  losing  like  10%  of  their  welfare. Where  the  10%  are  basically  even. That  is  not  actually accounting  for  the  fact  that people  are  more  vulnerable, Vulnerability  is  higher, it's  actually  only  counting  for because  this  was  the  state of  knowledge  by  Cory  15, it's  only  accounting  for the  fact  that  people  are  in  hotter  places. Yeah.  So  in  general, there  are  a  couple of  things  to  note about  poverty  and  climate  change. Most  vulnerable  talk  areas  how  the greatest  impacts  large  populations. There  are  two  ways  that  this  ends  up  biting. One  is  that  I  think  I  mentioned  before, those  lives,  these  impacts for  poor  people  have  less  financial  impact. Yeah. So  this  success, everyone  is  simultaneously  effected  by all  tempt  recitation  series. That  was  that  the  question. Okay.  Okay.  Yeah.  And  so I  underneath  one  of  any  of these  impacts  is  sort of  as  many  of  those  different hazards  as  as  you  can capture  for  this  all  of  these  impacts, this  is  this  is  huge  blue  one  is mortality  lost  due  to both  temperature  and  presentation  value  of the  BSL  crime  point  to  the  agriculture  Putty, those  are  all  temperature and  precept energy  demand  is  only  temperature. Coastal  is  sea  level  rise  and storm  search  and  cycle you  try  to  account  for  resume  as  you  can. There  is  particularly  for the  or  really  any  time that  you  plead  about  inequality. This  discect  between  the  welfare  impacts and  financial  impact. The  poor  people  are going  to  be  the  best  target for  policy  because  you're  going to  get  the  most  bank  per  buck for  any  reduction  in  what. By  that  you  do,  but  the  whole  dollar, your  loss  from  that  is  much  less  than  there. There's  a  second  with  the  vice  which  is that  when  you're  we historically  one of  the  models  that  we  used  for understanding  clinic  policy  is the  Intrade  assessment  model. And  the  Integra  assessment  models include  both  mitigation  and impacts  in  the  form  of  damages. Then  they're  run  under  optimization. The  idea  is  let's choose  the  carbon  price across  the  globe  or  different  region that  will  maximize. And  when  this  was  first when  these  balls  were  first  developed and  probably  Bill  Nord  House was  the  first  one  to  run  it. He  ran  into  a  problem  which  is that  the  model  chose the  carbon  prices  you  didn't  get  the  first, we  just  did  the  first  because  he can't  global  model  as,  as,  as  people  start. Second,  the  problem  that the  carbon  prices  that  are  chosen  were  not designed  to  fix  climate  change because  that's  not  the  best  way to  maximize  softfare. Best  way  to  maximize  softfare  is  to  design your  carbon  policy  to alleviate  poverty,  right? Because  that's  a  huge  benefit  that  you  get. Then  the  solution  for a  couple  of  decades  was  basically  to  force these  models  to  not  fix  poverty  in  order to  get  reasonable  answers out  of  them  about  what  you  do about  climate  change,  right? To  try  to  disconnect  those  two  questions. No, obviously  that's,  that's  not  a  great  answer. But  that's  basically  saying,  well, maybe  we  didn't  actually  care about  meyposing  welfare  in  the  first  place, which  I'd  like  to care  about,  mimosing  welfare. But  there's  still  a  lot of  debate  about  what's actually  the  point  of  policy. What's  the  goal  of  it  is  are we  actually  just  trying to  fix  time  cheer  or  something  else? The  term  used  for  this  whole forcing  the  models  only  account  for  point of  time  ching  and  not  fixed  property is  called  Nisha  Lock in  the  pattern  of  inequality  in  the  future. Yeah.  So  how  different  were the  results  between  the  2  moles? Between  like  if  you  if you  solve  things  but just  maximized  welfare versus  just  solving  inclination. Yeah.  I  mean,  it's, it's,  it's  a  you end  up  with  completely  different  pulses. Yeah.  Because  your, you  basically  want  to have  negative  carbon  prices across  the  developing  world  in  order to  let  them  develops  as  possible. But  just, yeah,  there's  depending  on  assumptions, you  can  even  get  a  situation where  you  ignore  climate  change entirely  and  just  as  fast  as  possible. And  one  of  the  reasons  for  that  is if  climate  change  is  going  to  do something  on  the  order  of  this, let's  say  this  is  the  end  of  the  century, we're  going  to  be  2%  2% That's  like  four  years  of  growth. That's,  that's  not  actually  that  big. Now  if  we  believe work  at  all,  you  work  it  off. Then  instead  we're  talking about  the  port  places becoming  like  75%  por  and then  you've  got  to  fix the  change  because  otherwise  you're, you're  good  at  P.  But  if  this  is  a  that, why  not  try  to  make the  whole  world  grow  a  little  faster. Take  the  10%  ticket and  know  that  you're  still  way  better off  that  kind  of  like  the  S  five  scenario. Yeah,  exactly.  Questions. We're  going  to  be  ready  to  do  more on  how  to  actually  calculate these  economic  risks  going  from economic  risk  more  after  we've  talked about  the  ethics  that are  embedded  in  the  evaluation  process, which  is,  I  think  Tuesday,  but  yeah. Then  the  next  thing  I  want  to  talk about  it  is  adaptation. So  wait  a  minute  to  get. So  I  was  just  finishing  up  last  time. And  Jill,  did  you  have  any  updates? I'll just my  presentation today  was  based  on the  assessment  report  which  2021. And  we're  looking  at  Chapter  16, which  is  a  local  adaptation  availability in  sectors  and  regions  on  research  points. We're  going  to  look  at  the  research  context, the  papers  that  are  informing the  work  of  the  document. The  scenarios  used,  the  methods  used  in the  two  points  of  the  paper, the  broad  applications. And  then  we're  looking  at  assessment  of  send the  research  in  terms  of the  research  context  which  is  a  IPCC  does, which  is  the  Pat  role  is to  the  climate  change  research  by synthesizing  the  latest  assessment in  scientific  understanding, integrating  new  evidence  and employing  nelities  to  assess  the  impacts. Thousands  of  experts  are involved  in  this  process  and also  editors  in  terms  of monitoring  it  and  also  reviewing  comments. In  the  last  assessment  report, we  had  approximately 1021  scientists  as  others. And  you  also  had  2,700 scientists  astuten  August, and  a  2000  scientists who  provided  expert  reviews. This  information,  I  found  it in  the  C  website, so  this  is  what  they  reported. It's  just  huge. It's  sort  of,  yeah, these  are  scientists  from  all  over  the  world. And  then  so  some  of  the  sectors  that  were hugely  considered for  the  reports  were  agriculture, water  resources,  and  health. And  what  the  impacts, so  this  is  just  a  summary  of what  they  identified  as  the  impact which  was  significant  risks for  climate  change  to reduce  crop  yields  and increase  vulnerability  to  test  diseases. This  affected  food  security. In  terms  of  the  adaptation, we  suggested  that  we  have  development of  the  resistance  varieties, improved  water  management  techniques, and  the  pacification  of  costs. However,  the  effectiveness  of  the  measures  of those  regions  because  not  all  of them  to  adapt  different  ways. And  also  in  terms  of  water scarcity  because  of  droughts, and  also  affecting drinking  water  sanitation  and  obviously, agricultural  and  energy  production. In  terms  of  adaptation, we  talked  about  investing  in  water  storage. Conservation  technologies and  integrated  water  business  challenges also  remain  due  to  financial  constraints. In  terms  of  health,  they  talked  about  a okay,  so  in  terms  of  health, the  health  related  mortality  table  ines like  material for  elderly  and  also  the  children. In  terms  of  adaptation, public  health  strategies include  surveillance, surveillance  and  control  of  disease  vectors, improving  emergency  response  to  heat  waves, and  investing  in  content  sanitation. The  success  of  these  strategies,  again, is  related  to  funding observable  impacts  in  terms  of  regions. So  I  just  summarize them  in  terms  of  continent, small  islands  and  polar  regions. Each  continent,  for  example, faces  challenges  from  increased  heat was  in  North  America  and  droughts  in  Africa. Adaptation  strategies  are  tailed specifically  to  those  areas. Small  island  states  are  also particularly  vulnerable  to  rise, storm  surges,  coastal  erosion. Adaptation  includes  coastal  defenses, sustainable  tourism  and  disaster  reduction. But  financial  and  technical  costs  and a  yeah  are  experiencing rapid  warming  with  melting ice  contributing  to  sea  level  rise and  affecting  Us  livelihoods, adaptation  and  Paco  and sustainable  y  natural  resources supporting  the  play  out. So  at  this  point when  you  look  at  this  report, the  climate  impact  as  shown in  that  assessment  report. The  reason  I'm  saying  that that  assessment  report  is because  the  assessment  report  six was  borrowed  from  the  three  reports from  the  first  one which  was  developed  in  1990, which  is  the  first  assessment  report  which we  has  gone  through  all these  other  reports  until  now. So  when  you  look  at the  dust  three  which is  the  Ad  assessment  report, insights  for  the  report  found  that recent  regional  climate  changes  have already  affected  many physical  and  biological  systems. With  preliminary  indicator  indications that  some  human  systems  have been  affected  through  floods  and  droughts. In  terms  of  the  fourth one,  they  had  insights, reported  that  likelihood  of reasonable  impacts  on many  physical  and  biological  systems. And  one  more,  so  in  this  one  they found  more  evidence,  the  fifth  one. So  they  had  expanded  the  scope  by  deuting a  separate  chapter  to  the  observe  impacts, finding  growing  evidence  of  impacts  of human  ecological  systems  on continents  and  across  oceans, making  a  significant  apace understanding  plan changes  throughout  the  years. They  were  proving  that. Now  they  really  have  a  chapter  on  that. And  it  started  with  assessment  report  five. Assessment  report  six,  Development methods,  results  and  implications. So  what  are  the  sheets? What  I  found  out  from  the Of  the  report  was  that  assessment  report in  terms  of  advancement  issues, that  it  was  built  on  findings  from the  three  assessments for  the  adjustmentation. The  approaches  that  were  used were  based  on  observational  studies, climate  modeling,  and interdisciplinary  analysis. The  methods  for  identifying also  included  methods  for identifying  sensitivity, whether  sensitivity  and  distinguishing  effect of  direct  human  influences. And  what  the  results was  was  that  there  was  a  shift in  species  distribution  in  migration. And  also  we  have  increased  intensity, frequency  of  three  weather  events, socioeconomic  inequalities, which  are  brought about  vulnerable  populations. Significance  and  fast  made in  understanding  the  economic impacts  of  climate  change. And  also  in  terms  of the  broader  applications  we've had  Ost  vulnerability  in, in  terms  of  adaptation  strategies. And  the  report  shows  the  need  to  have  to solve  the  climate  change situation  development  and  quality. And  also  we  found  that  the  findings a  support  in  terms  of  making policies  for  policy  makers. So  those  are  the  broader  implications  for the  report  than  the, what's  the  transition  between the  assessment  report five  and  assessment  report  six? If  you  look,  this  is  a  side  by side  comparison  of  what  the  changes  have been  in  terms  of the  assessment  report five  and  assessment  report  six. They  used  the  same  model, but  now  for  assessment  report  six, it  was  in  higher  resolution, improved  representation  of bio  chemical  cycles and  better  understanding  of  plants  and  so. And  then  they  had a  more  integrated  assessment of  climate  change, including  impacts  on  human  and  human  systems and  how  this  interact socioeconomic  processes. Then  they  also  had  stronger  evidence of  human  influence with  more  comprehensive understanding  of  weather  events. And  then  they  both  used  RCPs. But  then  in  terms  of  our  assessment  six, they  shared  socioeconomic  pathways. As  compared  to  assessment  five, they  project  futile  house  concentrations and  implications  for  global  warming. For  assessment  0.5  they emphasized  on  vulnerability, exposure  and  ation  capacity. But  then  for  six  they  used a  more  holistic  approach  in  so  planers, those  are  some  of the  differences  that  we've seen  between  the  two. In  terms  of  the  modules, the  models  that  were  used  for  assessment. In  both  sets  we had  socioeconomic  emissions  projections, which  consider  the  different  scenarios for  future  developments which  can  influence  greenhouse  gas  emissions and  subsequently  climate  change. They  also  use  the  physical  models  of  climate, which  shows  the  climate  system by  simulating  responses to  greenhouse  emissions. They  use  the  sea  level  rise  components and  also  assumptions  about  the  contrate. They  also  used  the  estimation of  the  social  costs  of carbon  and  variants  of social  costs  of  carbon. So  the  report  acknowledges the  different  conceptual  approaches  to evaluating  the  impacts  of carbon  emissions  as  comparing them  to  no  climate, economically  efficient, or  specific  climate  policies. These  are  the  models and  scenarios  that  are  used in  the  documents  then. This  is  also  a  scenario  that  I  picked  up because  they  had  just  recently, I  think  20  to  two  they  had  Poder  framework. Poder  meeting.  I'm  not  sure  where  it  was, but  some  of  the  complaint  that  SP  58.5 was  really  unrealistic  for policymakers  and  that  it should  just  be  removed. It  was  one  of the  complaint  that  came  up  which is  the  line  I  think  you  say  a  time. It's  been  brought  up  with  some  of  the  pass. So  this  is just  something  that  I  wanted  to  point out  in  terms  of  the  gaps  that, that  we've  seen  that  are  seen  in terms  of  the  scenario  and models  setting  up  is  that the  climate  models represent  the  climate  models. In  assessment  six, the  assumptions particularly  regarding  future  economic, technological  developments,  society  trades, carry  significant  acceptivetyes  that can  influence  future  projections. And  also  when  you  talk  about representation  of  natural  processes, it's  also  difficult  to re,  estimate  cloud  formation, so  interruption  carbons, feedback  as  difficult  as  it is  to  accurately  represent them  for  future  warming. Also,  the  skin  and  resolution  the  skin  ah, models  of  age  means  that local  and  regional  specifics might  not  be  captured  adequately. And  also  adaptation  and  mitigation  pathways. Modeling  feature  adaptation and  mitigation  pathways also  involves  assumptions about  technological  advancements, policy  decisions, and  human  behavior  which  changes  over  time. The  question  is  whether  the  models  are a  culture  to  the  range  of  possible  features, especially  considering  the  rapid  ness  of innovation  and  shifting  the  socials. And  also  the  use  of  historical  data. The  fact  that  they  use all  of  these  past  assessment  reports, which  obviously have  no  historical  precedent due  to  the  effect, unprecedented  levels  of  influence on  the  planning  system. So  that's  some  of  the  types  that identified  what  was  needed I  was  able  to  catch  from also  that  the  coding. So  some  of  the  people  also  mentioned  that, that  there  was  no  coordination between  the  working  groups. Working  group  two,  which  is  more on  talking about  mitigation  and  climate  change, adaptation  and  how  they  can  work together  actually  identify implementation  happens. The  coordination  between working  group  was  missing. And  also  the  scope  and depth  of  adaptation  strategies  which might  not  fully  delve  into the  implementation  at  the  local  level. They  felt  that  the  implementation at  the  local  level  was  not happening  as  much  as  they  were. All  these  ideas  on  paper  and  then the  economic  and  financial  constraints were  not  sufficiently  addressed  in  the  Pa, particularly  for  the  uniform  countries. And  then  concerns  about the  biosignature  representation of  the  IBCC  process. They  also  mentioned,  there  was  also a  mention  of  5%  of scientists  for  Africa  country and  basically  African  countries. And  p,  they  also talked  about  integration of  social  justice  perspective. The  root  causes  of  vulnerability could  be  socioeconomic, could  be  also  political, could  be  governance  issues, and  those  issues  also  are  not  addressed. Also  addressing  uncertainties in  future  scenarios. The  challenge  of  planning  for a  certain  future  scenarios may  lead  to  critics  relating  to  o, the  assessments  six  adaptation  section and  certainty  in  climate  projections and  socioeconomic  development. Also,  we  talked  about  evaluation  of, they  also  talked  about evaluation  of  adaptation  effectiveness. There  may  be  critics  regarding the  methodologies  used  to evaluate  the  effectiveness  of adaptation  missions  over  the  long  time. The  dynamic  change, the  dynamic  nature  of  the  climate  impacts adaptagement  approaches  and  critics  skid. So  those  are  some  of  the areas  that  they  mentioned, engagement  with  local  knowledge, so  they  can  be  able  to structure  some  of  the  word dates  to  be  understanding, communication,  implementation  challenges. Also,  some  of  the  things  that were  that  were  missed, looking  forward  to  assessment  to  seven, because  of  being  able  to track  some  of the  current  situations  scenarios  going  on. There  might  be  a  live  database that  people  can  actually  go on  to  check  about, to  check  and  also  to input  data  so  they're  capable  to check  what's  happening  and  it  will  be  live. That  scenario  database,  Demic  extension  of the  current  database  which  is  currently there  coordinated by  a  network  of  institutions, the  database  would  include submissions,  mid  current  scenarios, and  also  seek  to  include elevators  of climate  model  outcomes  and  impacts. Also  for  studying  advances in  scenario  frameworks  and  science  including strong  intuation  impact  studies and  understanding  future  risks. Also,  stronger  complication  schedules  between the  research  community  initiatives  and the  development  of the  Acts  assessment  schedules, both  in  terms  of  the  literature  cut up  dates  and  also  the  timing  of the  key  milestones  that  happened during  the  assessment  to  allow  for sufficient  time  for  information  to  be taken  up  in  the  assessment and  transparent  the  latest  outcomes of  the  assessment  across  the  working  groups. And  then  a  formalized coordination  and  oversight of  the  assessment  sensity  based  information. So  one  of  the  things  that also  came  up  was  the  fact  that  there was  the  coordination  of every  working  group  was  a  problem. That  something  that  looking forward  to  assessment  report  seven would  be  Rt  questions. I  think  it's  I  was  curious. So  I  want  to  see  a  note  that  did  you  see  how, what  they  meant  by  evaluation of  trion  effectiveness? Like,  what  do  they  mean by  how  effective  the  tri, what  was  is  union  adaptation? He  said  that  it  was, it  was  a  challenge,  right? Yeah.  So,  so  this  was part  of  the  secluding  that  they  had, and  some  of  them  are  staying  a  foundation  of adaptation  effectiveness  and  how they're  able  to  track  implementation. So  I  guess  that's  what  they  say, some  of  them,  seven. So  as  in  the  effectiveness  of  adaptation, nuclear  adaptation  practices  were  commition. That's  what  I  undisputed. Okay.  Yeah,  that,  that  doesn't tabsition  of  adaptation. I  think  it's  really  cool  that  I hadn't  seen  this  step  seven  before. And  the  plan  to  allow a  much  wider  range  of  scenarios would  not  have  been possible  just  a  few  years  ago. Because  any  of  these  scenarios, they  need  to  be  run  on the  massive  global  rat  climate  models, on  supercomputers. But  just  in  a  couple  of  different  places, there's  a  Versagore's  another  group, the  Pots  and  Institute  for  Climate  Research that  have  developed  the  emulator, use  this  word  emulator, which  are  basically  you  can  get, you  get  the  results  they would  have  gotten  from  a  model by  taking  data  from  existing  climate  runs. And  then  you  can  run them  with  a  different  scenario. You  want  the  idea  that then  choose  your  adventure, you  put  in  the  scenario  and  we'll give  you  the  answers.  That  seems I  also  want  to  mention, so  we're  going  to  be  talking about  the  social  plus  carbon  next  week. We  won't  talk  more about  these  reasons  for  concern, but  they're  pretty  interesting. These  are,  these  are, all  of  these  are large  scale  system  changes  that are  deeply  un,  in  multiple  ways. So  rather  than  trying to  quantify  exactly  how much  these  are  being  effect, rather  than  trying  to  quantify what  a  large  scale  car  events. So  that  means  like  collapse of  the  economic  system  or  collapse  of a  regional  regional  ecosystem. A  large  regional  ecosystem. Rather  than  trying  to  quantify  that, this  is  sort  of  based  on  explicitationy. Instead,  just  quantify  is the  risk  of  that  happening  undetectable, That  is  not  more, more  or  less  than  you  just  have from  the  historical  baseline. Moderate,  high,  very  high. There's  a  great  paper  that  compares these  across  the  different  AR  reports, across  the  different  CC assistant  reports,  and  across  those. Of  course  the  tempature level  has  been  going  up. So  we're  currently  above  one  degree. Around  one  degree  and we  will  the  tempture  has  been  creeping  up. All  of  these  bars have  been  some  whately  moving  down. That  is,  as  we've learned  more  about  climate  change, our  assessment  of deeply  certain  large  scale  impacts has  been  that  they  are  likely to  happen  at  lower,  lower  temperatures. Now  we  can  see  that  basically  across  all  of these  we're  at  the  moderate  risk  level, or  maybe  now  for  impacts, but  across  the  others. Whereas  in  the  third  assessment  report, almost  all  of  these  were above  that,  the  state  line. So  that's,  that's  what  can  change  just  to  be something  that Nato o okay. Okay.  So  let's,  let's  take  into  some  aspects of  allocation,  contentioningp,  positioning. This  in  the  different  ways  you  respond, respond  to  climate  change. We  can  deal  with  the  cause  of climate  change  mitigation, we  can  prepare  for the  consequence  of  climate  change  adaptation. Or  we  can  support those  impacted  by  climate  change, which  is  called  loss  and  damage. Basically,  one  way  to  think  about  this is  you  try  to  stop. You  can,  can't  stop. You  can  try  to  reduce  booty to  where  you  can't  reduce  polar  booty  to, you  have  to  basically  compensate  them. Compensation  was  a  really  big  point. In  this  last  meeting  of  the  talc, of  the  Paris  Agreement  process,  they  set  up, they  start  talking  about a  fund  for  rich  countries  to basically  poor  countries  to sort  the  damages  that  they're  going  to  lose. We  talked  about  in  fairly  concrete  terms a  year  ago  and  then  now  was  sort  of  in preparation  for  setting  up  a  fund  this  year. And  now  we  have  a  loss  and  damage  fund. It's  not  clear  how  big  it's  going  to be  or  whoa  is  going  to  be  to  it, but  countries  have  committed some  amounts  of  money  to  support  Lossmage. We're  going  to  talk  about  Oation. The  state  of  adaptation  planning  is  totals. This  is  a  project  from  Georgetown, which  for  some  reason their  map  wasn't  working. Can  see  this  says  formal  purpose  only. When  we  go  to  the  website, it  pops  up  and  says,  there's  a  problem. Do  you  want  to  still view  but  you  can  still  see  what, what's  happening  across  the  US. Basically,  the  coasts  have some  sort  actual  adaptation  plan or  around  the  relax, you  have  some  planning  processes underway  and  basically  the rest  of  the  safest, don't  they  go  tons of  local  regional  adaptation  plans. And  one  of  the  questions  is, what's  the  aropriate  scale for  doing  some  of  these  planning  processes? They  local  adaptation  plans  are the  appropriate  way  to  think about  dealing  with  climate  change  impacts. Because  what  you  want  to do  in  one  part of  Florida  is  obviously  what  you  want  to  do. What  people  are  concerned  about. Another  part  of  Florida, the  communities  are  different.  Different. But  if  local  edicion plants  are  the  way  forward, this  is  way  too  sparse  to actually  know  what  to  do  in  most  regions. The  UK  has  certainly been  going  through  its  process  of trying  to  figure  out  what  to  do  with  a  push the  UK  because  knows  something  about  it. They  take  this  step  further  and  say, okay,  we've  got  plans for  a  whole  bunch  of  things. This  is  a  subset  of  a  table and  these  sets  is  the  plan. Is  there  a  plan for  community  scale  floodation, for  surface  water  flation, water  demand  and  farms? Great.  Don't  have  plans  for  everything. But  then  the  next  question  is,  okay, are  people  actually  doing things  to  try  to  adapt  to  the  force? It's  all  good  to  have  the  plan. Are  people  actually  doing? In  some  cases,  people  are  doing things  even  where  there's  no  plan. A  plan  to  do  things.  But  the  next  step beyond  that  is  okay, if  there's  a  plan  and  we're  doing  things, is  baterability  actually  being  reduced. And  for  the  most  part  there, there's  not  much  evidence of  order  ability  being  reduced. So,  you  know,  having  a  plan, which  the  US  has  been struggling  with  to  get  is  a  first  step. And  then  there  are  more  steps  beyond  that. Let's  get  that. But  this  is  a  fun  typographic of  different  places  where  I guess  it  wants  to  show  fund  places  where different  adaptation  activities  are happening  again  in  the  UK, but  for  some  reason  for  that. But  the  criteria  for something  being  a  check  mark, which  would  you  think  means  things  are adapted  is  very  irregular. Let's  say  the  check  mark  here  is 60%  of  coastal  habitats  are in  good  condition  and  you  seven, 40%  or  bad  condition  as a  result  of  climate  change. The  area  of  urban  green  space is  no  longer  following  success. I  didn't,  you  know,  so  it's  a  very  low  bar that  things  aren't  going  getting  worse, as  bad  as  they  were  before. It  sounds  arbitrary. Yes,  completely  arbitrary. And  so  that  you worry  a  lot  about  the  ones  that are  the  red  triangles  because  that's, that's  the  check  mark  will  give  you. And  how  bad  must  things  be  other? Okay,  let's  define  some  more  terms. Adaptation  capacity is  really  important  principle of  terms  of  bridge  climate  change. If  you  combine  adaptation  capacity and  the  implementation  of actual  adaptation  praxis, we're  just  going  to  call  that  adaptation. Then  you  can  try  to increase  policy  and  try  to  increase either  a  capacity or  actual  adaptation  actions. So  that  means  that  adaptation, a  policy  response, it's  something  that  policymakers can  think  about  and  try  to  manage. What  do  we  need  to  know  about  adaptation from  a  policy  makers  point  of  view? Some  of  the  questions  that a  policymaker  needs  to have  answers  to  try  to  do  this. By  the  way,  I'm  using  policymaker  in  the  way that  economists  usually  use  per  say, we  never  actually  talked  to  a  policymaker. But  it'd  be  good  to incorporate  the  stuff  into  our  models to  say  theoretically what  policymaker  should  do. So  first,  what  are the  adaptation  practices  that  you  could  take? Let's  try  to  lay  that  out. For  any  given  impact that  we're  concerned  about, How  much  would those  different  adaptation  practices reduce  negative  impacts  or harness  positive  impacts  of  climate  change? Within  most  sectors  are  going  to  have  both  of those  within  Bust  for  different  groups. Bust  for  different  aspects  of  the  activity. Think  of  agriculture, where  some  crops  are  going  to  be having  the  yields  reduced but  other  crops  because  either the  benefit  a  lot  from commercialization  or  because  they are  particularly  well  suited, high  temperatures,  they're  going to  have  their  is  increased. Who  can  adapt  commercial  costs  to  adapt different  challenges  or  barriers to  those  adaptation  marks? And  then  how  do  we  make decisions  about  which  of these  practices  you  should  account  for? Certainly  incorporating a  bunch  of  this  information,  right? Particularly  the  benefit  side and  the  cost  side. But  also  accounting  for the  fact  that  we  are  sally, uncertain  about  all  of  these  things. The,  one  of  the  key  issues with  the  insurgent  piece is  whenever  you  for a  bunch  of  different  kinds of  adaptation  practices, if  you  choose  to  invest in  that  infrastructure, you're  locking  in  a particular  adaptation  system that  may  not  be  appropriate for  the  actual  hazards  of  experience. It  depends  on  what your  adaptation  system  was designed  for  and  whether that's  what  the  world  actually  ends  up  giving me  presentation.  Maybe.  Think  of. We'll  see.  Oh,  right, so  there's  this  question of  adaptation  effect  is  also  in  this. That  is,  if  you have  particular  autation  practice that  you  think  you  might  want  to  implement, then  you'd  like  to know  the  way  worded  here  was, okay's's  the  benefit  of  that, let's  measure  how  bad  things  would  have  been. The  measure  how  much, how  good  things  would  be  with  the  adaptation and  that  difference  is the  benefit  of  the  adtation  practice. That's  fine,  as  long  as  you  assume  that  the, the  goals  of  the  system are  not  going  to  change  with  adaptation. What  I  mean  by  that  is there  are  a  bunch  of  adaptation  practices. That  practices, they  could  change  what  we're  actually  eating. So  we'll  see  this  maybe  more  with  mitigation. But  let's  say  that  one  of our  adaptation  practices  for dealing  with  the  potential  for, for  flooding  on  the  roads  is  that  we're  going to  build  raised  bicycles. We  not  only  are  you getting  the  benefit  of people  can  still  move  around, but  people  are  going  this  benefit  from the  health  because,  because they're  everywhere. But  if  you  do  that  in  a  place  where people  don't  bike  currently, but  you're  going  to  maybe  as part  of  your  autation  policy, you're  going  to  encourage  people to  bike  well, suddenly  assuming  that  you're successful  and  encouraging people  to  bike  you, the  functioning  of the  system  has  actually  changed. You've  taken  a  bunch  of  people  who were  on  the  car,  you've  made  them  healthier, you've  made  them,  you made  them  benefit  from  all  these  bike  lanes. But  you've  asked  the  system that  is  the  structure  system and  the  human  system, to  do  something  different from  what  they  would've  done. Is  that  still  just  basic  connotation if  you're  actually  saying, okay,  we're  going  to get  the  system  to  do  something  different, not  just  to  not  be  as  highly  impacted  from climate  change,  So  you  communicate. Oh,  yeah,  Yeah,  that's the  point.  Do  you  want  to  see  more? The  communication  aspect  is  very, if  you  want  to  transitions over  communication  aspect, but  that  would  be  forms.  Yeah,  definitely. And  it  also  factors into  some  of  this  policymakers  stuff. If  you  want  to, particular  adaptation practice,  how  are  you  going to  convince people  that  that's  what  they  want? Or  communicate  to  them the  benefits  of  having  an  adaptation. Important  case  for  this is  putting  our  houses  on stilts  as  a  way  to avoid  coastal  impacts  from  sea  level  rise. People  heat  having  their  house  on  a  stilt, but  it's  super  good  adaptation  practice. Once  they  have  their  house, they're  just  as  happy as  they  would  have  been  before, please,  climate  change. But  getting  people  to do  that,  to  put  their  house  on  a, still  requires this  huge  communication  process  to  say,  hey, we're  offering  you  maybe this  incentive  and  you  should  do  the  thing and  workers  on  stills because  it's  cold,  in  certain  contexts. Like  certain  adaptation  measures make  people  more  vulnerable  to other  hazards  like  putting houses  on  stills  that there's  like  an  earthquake, it  could  make  them  less  stable. Like  you  need  to  also  think  about  like how  certain  adaptations  might  make  more. Yeah,  another  case  of  that  is  if, if  your  adaptation  practice  is  to  encourage everyone  to  spend all  their  time  in  their  cars, then  you're  going  to  make  them  less healthy  and  less  able  to  spend  time  on  doors. Has  resting  timators. Yeah,  I  think  most  of the  use  reference  method like  me  or  direct  willingness to  pay  for  particular  good. Electrode  de  so  that's like  people  are  willing  to  pay  for that  kind  of  infrastructure. Often  people  don't  know the  value  of  aptation  measures,  right? Because  it's  you're  asking  people  to change  something that  they  don't  want  to  change. And  so  you  usually  it's,  it  ends  up, rather  than  being,  you  know, what's  the,  what  I  see  is  the  value, you  have  to  have  to say  what's  your  willingness  to accept  this  change  your  system,  how  much, how  much  do  I  have  to  pay  you to  have  you  buy  fines? A  willingness  to  we  can  talk  about the  tax  as  if government  want  to  kind  of  in  such  a  check. So  they  want  to  so  they  can ask  you  may  like  to  be  higher  taxes, a  good  one  that  I  should  include  here. How  are  you  find  Che? Um,  there  are  lots  of different  ways  to  define adaptation.  I  pull  these  from. You  can  see  the  Paris  process  defines  adapts, Actions  taken  by communities  and  ecosystems  to cope  with  changing  climate  didionsssumption. There  is  climate  change  is  bad  and we  need  to  deduce  about  it. Thatcc  has  this  idea  of adjustments  to  natural  human  systems. That's  much  more  of  a  systems  view in  response  to  actual or  expected  clemency  line. And  then  they  bring  in  either  moderate  harm or  explain  beneficial  things. So  it's  a  much  more  general  idea, but  it  loses  some  of  these  ideas  of the  agency  of  individual is  to  take  individual  actions. This  is  the  UN  Development  Program  and it  emphasizes  the  fact that  out  is  a  process,  right? People  need  to  be engaged  in  some  sort  of  process. And  there  are  a  bunch  of  things about  governments  as  well, but  a  process  by  which  you can  have  these  strategies  to  moderate, cope,  and  take  advantage  of consequences  of  these  connection  events. And  have  those  events, your  ability  to  do  those  things be  enhanced,  developed  and  implemented. So  once  again, because  they  see  it  as  a  process, look,  you've  got  a  plan  for  us, you've  got  figure  out what  you  want  to  do  and  to  in  a  time. Yeah.  Can  you  give  me  an  example  for the  just  natural  system? Just  in  natural  systems. So  all  of  these  are  going  to  be  the they're  all  going  to  consider  certain  things. Like  the  things  that  we  talk  about. Planting  cultural  say  for agriculture  is  going  to  be, it's  going  to  fix  the  definition of  adaptation  for  all  these. But  is  planting  an  action  taking my  community  or  is  it an  adjustment  to  the  agricultural  system? Or  is  it  part  of  a  process  of adaptation  that's being  facilitated  by  someone? So  we're  going  to  use the  work  intervention  just  Yeah. So  you  can  also  talk about  interventions  to  Yeah. Yeah. So  there's  I  put  up  all three  of  these  because  I think  even  though  they're talking  about  the  same  adaptation  in  general, there  they're  emphasizing different  aspects  of  adaptation. They  do,  there  are lots  of  different  ways  that people  talk  about  adaptation. A  bunch  of  a  big  list  of  things  here. Resilience  building,  again,  that's, that's  sort  of  a  different  way of  thinking  about  Sat  process, risk  management,  business  continuity. Thinking  about  the  role  of  how  firms  are thinking  about  this  practice or  firms  might  think of  this  as  due  diligence. What  is  their  responsibility  to the  community  or  the  environment. Sure  that  options  current  and  future  impact of  the  simplistic  view about  action  is  like,  okay,  so  what's  the? You  start  experiencing  some  sort of  impact  and  then  you've  got  to  adapt  to  it. But  actually  often  we're going  to  be  thinking  about  the  actions  you take  now  in  order  to  reduce your  vulnerability  a generation  or  more  in  the  future. Let's  put  some  math  on  this. The  simplest  way  that  I  could think  to  formulate  this,  to  say, okay,  we  have  a  choice, as  an  agent, we  can  either  choose  not  to  not  adapt, and  then  we  get  a  damage. It's  number  zero  and  it's  a  random  variable. We  don't  know  how  much  damage  is  going  to  be something  or  we  can  choose  to  adapt. And  then  we  get  some  different  outcome. A,  which  is  going  to  be  presumably  less  than D.  But  in  addition  we have  the  cost  of  adtationssan  D, it's  also  variable. The  cost  of  adtation, something  that  usually  we  have  a  better  sense of  than  the  benefits  of  adtation. We  want  to  adapt  if the  expected  utility  of  option  two  is, I  put  this  up, is  all  assuming  that  this  is sort  of  utility  is  increasing  here. But  expected  utility  of, of  the  second  option  is  less  than expected  utility  of  the  first  option. Which  is  say,  your  damages  in  terms  of  your, the  welfare  that  you  would  lose  would be  greater  than  how  much  welfare you  would  lose  from  your  adaptation, adapt  to  damages  plus  the  cost  that you're  going  to  be  incur. So  this  definition  is something  that  an  individual  agent will  already  decide. This  is  at  a  level  agent someone's  valuing  this. And  if  they  perceive  that there  losses  are  going  to  be less  with  adaptation  than they  are  going  to  be  without, then  they'll  just do,  they'll  make  that  ation. That's  called  autonomous  adaptation. Autonomous  adaptation  is  in contrast  to  policy  driven  adaptation. We  assume  that  rational agents  will  engage  in  it. But  there  are  lots of  reasons  why  Russia  agents, or  even  real  agents, rational  agents  might  not  do  tion,  right? We  might  observe  that  the  agents aren't  adapting  well. Why  might  that  be  for  this  reasonable  model? And  one  is  frictions. Is  there  something,  something  hidden  barrier to  the  moving  from what  they  were  here  before  to the  adaptation  practice? And  that  could  be  a  barrier that's  in  their  minds, could  be  that  their  resistance  change. It  could  be  that  it's  a  real  barrier that's  difficult  to  quantify. Like  it  could  be  that no  one  wants  to  switch  over  to  biking  to  work because  they've  bought  houses are  far  away  from  the  work. They  would  have  to  buy  a  new  house, they  have  to  change other  aspects  of  their  lives. So  these  frictions  and  you  can  imagine, okay,  we  can,  we  can  deal  with  that, we  can  incorporate  that  into this  lotto  by  just  saying, okay,  actually  see  the  cost was  higher  than  what  we  thought  it  was. We  started  out  by  just  measuring  cost as  the  cost  of  buying  a  bike  maybe. And  then  we  realize,  oh  wait, we've  got  to  say  that  the  cost is  the  cost  of  buying  a  bike plus  whatever  people  would  have  to, the  willingness  to accept  changing  from  cargos. Transportation,  it  could  be that  there  are  a  bunch  of  future, they'll  have  these  benefits occur  in  the  future. So  that's  not  in  this  model. I,  I,  I  bring  up here  research  and  development. It  could  be  that  we  have  to start  investing  in  developing these  option  purposes  before  actually  get  to. It  could  also  just  be  that we're  to  pay  for  the  option  now, we  don't  get  the  benefit of  the  patient  until  much  later. For  example,  I  see  walls  here  but the  seawalls  are  a  classic  example. You  have  to  build  seawall  particular  H, then  you  get  the  benefits  of the  seawall  for  5,200  years. Then  the  third  piece  here  is  well, what  if  it's  not  something that  a  single  person  can  do, Like  I  can't  build  a  mole  around  my  house. It  wouldn't  be  very  effective  if  I  did, but  if  we  had a  whole  community  that's  then  you  can, you  can  pull  the  money  and develop  some  sort  of  public  investments in  some  of  these  optation. So  there  are  a  bunch  of  optation where  you're  not  going  to  get Tom  Aptation  because the  private  benefits  is  too  little. But  if  everyone, we  were  to  pool  their  resources, then  they  would  get  a  benefit that  is  much  higher than  the  cost  they  would  be  incurred. We  may  need  to  have  policy  driven  allocation, really  for  any  of  these  professions, because  it  could  be  that people  aren't  behaving  rationally. Maybe  with  a  little  bit  incentive, they  could  switch  something that  would  be  better  for  them. That's  very  journalistic  work  with  that. It  could  be  that  they  have the  wrong  discount  rate, they're  just  trying  to  use  your  too  highly. Or  said  another  way, it  could  be  that  even  though  they have  reasonable  discount  rate  for  individual, that  discovery  isn't  the  same as  discovering  what  use  for  society. And  it  could  be  that  the  positive  innetation, just  because  we're  trying to  use  some  sort  of  public  good. Do  you  have  Thomas? But  application,  which  don't  want. Let  me  just  repose  this.  So  we're talking  more  about  public  goods  and private  goods  as  you  get  into  medication. But  this  is  a first  time  just  start  talking  about  it. Remember  this  we  think about  different  kinds  of  goods, is  split  them  into bus,  excludable,  Excludable  goods. The  question  of  barbers  is  basically  asking, is  it  a  zero  sum  game? If  I'm  using  the  good,  do  you  not  use  it? Or  if  the  good  exists? That  if  it  exists, we  all  get  to  use  excludable versus  non  excludable. Once  you've  created  the  good, do  you  get  to  say who's  going  to  benefit  from  it? Changes  the  kinds  of  decisions  that  I  make. Some  classic  things  here. B,  Excludable  Pred. You  want  to  buy clothing  that  is  better  adapted  to  Tes. There's  nothing  stopping  you  from  doing  that. But  there  are  also  when  barbarous, non  excludable,  things  like an  open  access  resource like  common  surfisery, so  that  no  barbarous  excludable  goods, things  like  club  goods, could  a  group  of  people  get  together and  make  this  wood  for  their  community, but  not  let  other  people  outside their  community  use this  gym  or  pure  publicos. We  can't  exclude  people  from  using it  and  once  it's  there, everyone's  benefiting  from  it  and  know  that. It's  pretty  easy  to with  assumptions  where  people are  fully  getting  the  pure  private  goods that  are  maximizing  the  welfare. But  we're  going  to  weigh  under, invest  in  public  goods  because  of individually  language  because  there's no  way  that  a  rational  agent, individually  would  choose  to put  much  on  African. In  here,  personal  adaptation  is excludable  cout  Mitigation  is our  classic  example  of  this  class  of  a  non, excludable  non  verus  moment  that you  mitigate  benefits  and  can  benefit. We  talk  more  about  the  consequences of  this  later  on, but  what  should  we fill  in  in  some  of  these  other  spots? Can  you  guys  think  of  answer? So  my  next  slide. Can  you  guys  think  of adaptation  practices  that  would  be excludable  us  like  pubic  bits? What's  example  of  a  personal  adaptation  By  C? Yeah,  correct.  So  it's your  AC  and  you  could decide  who  benefits  from  it. What  about  non  excludable  rivals? But,  and  rather, nation  that,  that's  non  excludable, we  can't  sufferable  from benefiting  from  it  and, but  if  one  person  from someone  else  isn't  going to  be  the  water. Oh,  it's  really  interesting. So  in  India,  they're  called  tanks. Some  type  of  nation  or  just  some, some  basis  takes  some  the  basis just  to  prevent  from  the  flush. Yeah.  Check  like  this is  everyone  is  equally  benefiting  from  it. So  it's  probably  it's  probably  a  if it's  flood  control  it's  going  to  be  nor, but  if  it's  something  like  we're using  it  for  water  storage, for  water  availability,  then  it's going  to  be  west. We  build  these  things  but  then  anyone  could, could  sneak  up  and  search key  from  us  and  then suddenly  you  end  up with  some  people  benefiting  other  people. They  got  there  too  late, not  getting  the  benefit  of the  agitation  practice  in novorus,  excludable  goods  there. Hybrids.  So  she  area,  yeah. So  you  have  maybe  you  build a  nice  new  meeting  with central  AC  and  so you  can  decide  who  gets  to  go  in. But  everyone  who  lives there  is  benefiting  from central  C  and  then  a  public  good. That's,  that's  an  adaptation  practice. O  okay,  yeah. The  moment  you  both  let  down, everyone's  going  to,  going  to  benefit. So,  I  put  in  some  of these  things  we  got,  raising  up  your  home. The  two  lines  here  are  sort  of  ation to  temperatre  adotation,  sea  level  rise. I  couldn't  think  of  a  good  adaptation temperature  for  Non  suitable. We  sea  walls  are  not  suitable. Should  be. No,  I  think  it  should  be  because  Yeah. And  everyone  my  benefit doesn't  remember  it's  because a  seawall  is  is  in  a  particular  area. And  so  if  I've  got  a  house  in  that  area, you  don't  have  a  house  in  that  area. So  only  some  people  get  to  benefit  from  it. We  can't  stop  people  from choose  to  fight  their  house  there. So  it's  not  suitable  as  when  you  say  need. Competition  is  the  natural consequence  of  it  being marvelous  because  there's  a limited  enough  to  go  round. And  particularly  if  it's, it's  not  excludable. Everyone  tries  to  get their  share  or  more  than  their  share, but  the  competition  isn't  consequence, I  would  say  that  the, the  definition  of  it. But  if  the  argument is  you  have  to  buy  the  house, wouldn't  that  make  it  exclale? Yeah,  But  you  can't  stop  people from  buying  things  in  that  area. Yeah,  you  got  cooling  centers. People  have  been  footing these  in  certain  areas  across  the  world. Breakwaters  that  sort  of  affect a  whole  big  area  might  be  balls. I  couldn't  hear  solar  radiation  management as  not  suitable. It's  so  large  scale that  it  benefits  both to  rising  and  temperature, but  to  talk  more about,  about  your  engineering. Okay,  let  me  just  do  this  slide. So  yeah,  there  are  lots  of  other  reasons why  we  might  need  to  do  policy  adaptation. One  of  those  reasons  is  we  talked  about, but  one  of  those  reasons  is  if  it's a  public  good  or  anything  but  a  private  good, then  we're  going  to  need  to  do something  along  those  lines. It  might  just  be  that  people  don't have  resources  to  pay  for  it, they  might  not  be  able  to  buy the  AC  out  of  pocket even  though  they  benefit  from  us. Um,  it  might  be irrational  because  they're  mis, they're  underestimate  the  need for  the  adaptation practice  barriers  to  getting. If  one's  selling  the  coal, my  si  earth  suits  that. The  walk  around  in  hot  interest. Well  then  even  if people  are  willing  to  pay for  it  and  know  that  they  want  it, they  might  not  be  able  to  get  them. So  lots  of  reasons  for  doing  ation  practices. We'll  talk  about  other  dimensions  of this  adaptation  decisions  as  it  enters into  policy  adaptation  next  weekend. If  you  have  any  things  you  wrote  down  for questions  that  I  can  answer  next  time, turn  your  exit  tickets,  submit. Try  to  sit  her  job  of.
