All  right.  All  right.  Awesome. So  today  would  you  press come  this  time  actually have  you  guys  gram  watch  me,  right? Just  to  let  you  know.  That  will be  you  can  go  to  our.com model  C  con  24  and  we'll  be using  this  H  six. It's  basically  a  global  gridded  data  set  of ocean  conditions  to  prosuture. Week  five  plotting  projections  and  we  use, so  first  thing  to  do  is  to  install  tiers. So  when  I  introduce  our  before, those  of  you  who  do  some  stuff  in a  know  that  the  standards  are  a  purchase. Plotting  is  really  tough to  tick.  Look  any  good. And  so  there  are  other  more  advanced  ways to  do  plotting  a. One  of  the  most  sophisticated high  quality  plotting  system  universe is  called  GG  plot. It's  part  of  a  whole  suite  of packages  that's  in  our  verse. Verse  basically  has  a  common  way  of  thinking about  adding  on  different  features. It's  useful  to  let's describe  a  Ti  verse and  then  the  only  part  that we're  going  to  be  using  verse  today is  GG  plot  plot  is  inside  of T.  So  if  you  already  have  Ts, you  don't  need  to  install  packages. By  the  way,  there  are  other  ways  to  install packages  In  whatever  our  way, our  interface  you're  using inst  voice  work  that will  try  to  install even  though  it's  already  installed. I'll  say  download  it  and  installing  it. You  said  it  was  a  repository that  you  got,  right? So  repository  with  the  climate  data  and also  the  deter  for state  is  Polk  model  CCE  Con  2024. That  process  that  I  got  a  plot, this  is  how  I  can  search.  Okay. This  is  also  still  trying  to  re install  papers  which  is a  huge  collection  packages. So  it's  signal  in. Yeah. Okay.  And  then  I  mean Low  Ty  versing  library  Ty versus  going  to  do  that. It's  going  to  wait  because  it's  so so  table  show  you  something  else. So  we're  going  to  use,  we're going  to  use  GG  plot. One  of  the  best  resources  for understanding  GG  plot  is  this  che  sheet. It's  actually  reproduced  in 1  million  different  places  around  the  web, but  it's  always the  same  sheet  for  some  reason. This  is  Dig  visualization  with  GG  plot  set. It  sorts  out  on the  right  here  with  explaining how  to  think  about  making  plots,  plots. And  basically  you  have  a, an  area  that  you  want to  add  different  features  to, like  different  pieces  of data  displayed  in  different  ways  or different  kinds  of  graphical  features. It  says,  okay,  if  you do  that  is  you  could  say  plot, where  you  say  the  data is  whatever  the  data  is. And  then  you  put  on  some kind  of  plotting  function, g  function  plus  the  go  function. And  then  there's  this  idea  of  a  mapping. We  also  see  the  word  sex. The  idea  is  that  rather  than  saying, I  want  to  plot these  values  as the  exponents  of  these  values, the  white  points  and  befient we're  actually  going  to do  is  we're  going  to  say, here's  a  data  frame, remember  data  frame  specification, and  here's  how  you  should interpret  different caves  within  that  data  frame. On  call  might  be  the  exported, that  other  column  might  be  the  color  of the  points  or  the  size  of the  points  or  the  kind, the  shape  of  the  points,  we'll  see  that. And  then  you  can  do  other  things  like different  ways  of  displaying different  ornans,  actually  you  can. Tell  us  to  plot  data  saying,  okay, I  want  the  coordinate, this  be  the  white  part, and  then  later  change  what those  coordinates  mean  to  plot. For  example,  you  can  say,  oh,  by  the  way, the  coordinate  is  on a  log  scale  or  the  color  coordinate. I  want  the  scale  to  go from  red  to  blue.  Something  like  that. So  we'll  see  some  of  those  things  that  all seems  confusing  flavor,  be  clear  pretty  soon. Fundamentally,  the  different  ways of  plotting  the  different  things you  can  plot  within GG  plot  depend  on  whether the  plot  you  want  is discrete  or  continuous  and one  dimensional  or  two  dimensional. Let's  ignore  the  graphical  primitives  there. Top  down  to  one  dimensional  continuous. One  dimensional  continuous  means  I have  a  bunch  of data  where  it's  really  just  one  column, but  that  column  describes something  along  one  part. So  example  would  be  a  list of  the  heights  of  people,  right? So  you  have  but  people  and  all  their  heights. And  you  might  want  to  do something  like  make  history. There  is  history. Okay.  I'll  give  that, I'll  tell  you  which  Cal has  the  heights  in it  and  then  we'll  make  history. You  can  also  do  um, density  density  produces  a  smooth, probably  a  little  more one  dimensional  discrete  would  be  something where  we  still  just  have  one  call  up  data. But  rather  than  being  open  of different  numbers  in  some  other  pat, for  example,  voting  decisions. So  you  could  have  a  column with  a  bunch  of  people's  votes  and whether  they  voted  Democratic or  Republican  in  the  US  Independent. And  then  do  bar  to make  a  plot  that represents  how  many  people  voted. With  initiatives. Examples  of  one  dimensional  data, there  are  two  main  things  you can  do  with  one  dimensional  data. Two  dimensions  are,  are  more  common if  both  the  x  and  something  like  a  dot, a  scatter  plot,  each  row  of your  data  frame  corresponds  to  one  dot. And  the  graphs,  there  are  others  you  can  do like  how  Joe  text  will  put some  label  at the  location  rather  than  location. Screened  X  continuous  Y  would  be something  like  oxp,  where  the, for  example,  you  could  take  our  dataset of  people's  heights  and maybe  in  the  state  days, it  also  shows  people's  voting  patterns. And  so  they  could  find  out  if Republicans  or  Democrats  are  taller. And  then  you  might  have  two  different  plots produced  for  those  two troops  showing  their  heights. X  is  discrete, it's  Democrat  or  Republican,  Independence. Y  is  continuous.  It's  the  height  number which  we  see  some  stuff. Yeah,  there's  three  dimensional  stuff. Anyway,  that's, that's  the  way  that  these  are  organized, and  this  is  a  useful  place to  look  for  that  information. Okay.  Back  in  my  R, it  succeeded  in  installing tidyverse,  very  China. And  then  the  next  thing  I  did  was I  did  this  library  tidyverse, which  just  loads  everything in  tiny  verse,  I  can  use  it. It  has  this  nice  summary  of  what  it  loaded. It  says,  okay,  I've  loaded  all  these  things. Lubridate  is  useful  for  parsing  gates, red  is  useful  for  parson  files, useful  for  parson  strings,  They're  all  there. But  it  also  says,  oh  wait, There  are  actually  a couple  of  these  functions that  because  of  what R  already  has  built  into  it. The  name  is  conflict  between the  new  things  that  typers offers  and  what  are  already  offers. If  there  if  I  had  other  things  in  my  mind, then  there  might  be more  conflicts  and  have to  do  something  like  that. But  there  are  no  conflicts  that matter  for  us,  Cha. All  right,  so  now, rather  than  us  just go  through  all  the  same  data, can  be  more  fun  to  do different  datasets  and  then we  can  compare  notes. So  let  me  first  tell  you  what's  going  on. I've  collected  a  bunch of  species  that  all  have  a  fair  amount  of data  on  where  they've  been observed  so  we  can  do  some  interesting  things with  understanding  how  their species  ranges  are  going to  change  in  the  future. This  is  all  through  this  project  opamps. If  I  look  for  my  species  to crowd,  then  say,  okay. There  are  three  different  things that  you  could  refer  to. Could  mean  when  you're talking  about  blue  crab, American  blue  crab,  blue  crab, or  Western  blue  crab. You'll  notice  that  actually  two, these  are  the  same  species. American  blue  crab,  blue  crab. That's  what  I  want. I  want  that  species. I  just  it  will show  me  a  map  of where  the  species  is  suitable. Native  range  is  historically where  that  species  has  been  found  here, 2050  Native  range  is  what  is expected  to  be  that  species native  range  in  the  future. Suitable  habitat  in  this  case is  global  because  the  suitability  envelope doesn't  constrain  it  to  be  specifically along  the  east  coast  of  the  Americas. The  fact  that  it's  constrained  to  be long  Sposreca  might  have something  to  do  with  where the  species  generally  was able  to  genetic  dispersion, where  it's  able  to  end. It  could  also  be  that  when  it, when  it  goes  to  other  areas, there  are  other  species,  there  are  competed. We  don't  know  and  we're not  going  to  try  to  get  into  that. And  then  finally,  the  point  map, which  is  the  data  that  I showed  you  before  about where  the  species  has  been. So  we're  going  to  be  using this  data  to  some  interesting  time. So  I'd  like  you  guys  to  get  in  groups  of two  to  three  different  groups to  decide  on  a  species. In  here  I  have  some  species, different  kinds  of  fish, good  choices  actually  you  want  just  make sure  that  it  has  some  reasonable  amounts of  updated  work,  can  explore. There  are  four  options for  native  arrangement. So  just  to  find  which  one  you  don't  watch, I'll  tell  you  a  minute,  sir. Years  on  like  60  that are  the  roof  to  find  there. I'm  not  sure  further.  I  might have  to  be  a  object  to  it. Looks  like  it  be  useful. I  mean,  are  those  what  advantage of  being  pairs  is  you  could  fight someone  with  a  computer with  more  power  than  yours that  suck  some  power. Now,  it's  a  silly  notion  I  like before.  All  right?  Yeah. Okay.  Okay.  So  the  question was  what  data  so  I  should  get. So  if  you  have  the  instructions, do  you  parr  species  and  then  you'll see  that  says shopping  parameters  plotdata  show  that. So  here  there's  underneath  explore below,  there's  shopping  parameters. That's  useful  because  that  then  shows  you all  the  data  table  on the  suds  this  from  winter, but  we're  going  to  go  up  to the  top  of  that  page  and  click  mo  data. And  that's  going  to  say,  okay, of  different  kinds  of  data  that  I  got. That's  part  of  this,  the  well  forward  ground. I  believe  that  the  Barto  data  is  the, the  base,  the, the  H  calf  dataset  that  I've  got  for  you. Okay.  Map  data  is where  does  it  actually  where  is  it  turned out  to  be  suitable  but  occur  cells is  the  actual  points  that  are  it's  been identified  a  soccer  cells and  should  happen  immediately. Okay. Useful. Yeah.  So  which I  want  to  talk  to  you  are  as  the  kind of  craft  you  want to  show  that  plot my  purpose  be  shot. Object to  just  chance to  do  that  down. And  then  you  go  up  to  the  top  of that,  the  current  cells. And  when  you  download  it, I'll  put  that  somewhere  that  you  know  how to  access  like  downloads,  orders, whatever  you  did  for  that  one  or you  do  you  know  where  everything is  in  your  computer  favor? Okay.  Here  possible. So  we're  going  to read  that  data  and my  my  code  here  says  Blue  crab  do  TSP. But  actually  the  file  that  I  got, it's  called  17087  and  it  says  oh, I  don't  know  where  that  file  is because  I  am  get  so  just  move  that. It  for  okay. And  the  first  thing  you  should get  is  an  error. Is  the  error  that  that  is expected  error  when  you  try. So  this  is  the  there's are's  a  period  in  there. Periods  in  R  functions  are  normal. It's  sort  of  how  far does  a  space  in  a,  in  a  function. This  is  saying  the  CSP file  and  it  says,  okay, I've  tried  to  do  that  and  I  can't because  there  were  columns,  the  column  names. It's  interesting.  Okay,  so we've  got  to  look  at the  data  and  there are  lots  of  different  ways  to  look  at  the. If  you  just  open  it  up  in  a  text  editor, that's  probably  the  best  option. But  I'm  going  to  try  to  do  it  a  differently since  people  to  tick  editors  to  slay. Okay?  And  this  is  what  the  file  looks  like. And  you  can  see  rows  one through  seven  are  not  actually  the  data  set. The  data  set  starts  on  row  eight and  then  starting  on  row  eight, you've  got  genus  species centralizes  and  12b  useful  data. Rows  one  through  seven  are  a  red  herring. They  are  messing  up  our  ability to  read  and  work with  this  data  however  he  wants. The  first  thing  you  do  is  delete those  seven  rows  in, it  is  named  Excel  just  with  this. And  then  I  have  to  restate  it. If  I  just  do,  say  just  let  me  do  that. Can  tell  that  when  I  did  this  at home  I  didn't  use  Excel. Is  I  have  to  see  if  please  I  didn't  go. Yeah,  look,  go. Okay.  So  now  you  go  back  to  my  or  I  can  say, all  right,  read  it  again and  this  is  the  next  error that  I  expect  you  all  to  get. So  let  me  know  when you're  at  the  second  error which  the  second  error is  Indd  Monte  bit  string  seven. But  you  don't  need  to  have  an  accept. As  long  as  you  have  a  work  Sp,  that's  great. You  just  want  to  say  this  part that's  there,  that's  not  there. Okay,  so  that's  for  other  side. I  have  nothing  I  can  do  for  you  there. There's  car  here. Could  you  could  move  your  whole  team  with  a. Okay.  Got  you. Want  to  also  this  class? It's  also  not  the  home. Let  me  So  the  reason why  those  we've  got  this  is wanted  by  string  car  is because  the  first  row  of the  file  has  little  degree  symbols. I'm  seeing  the  symbols in  there  and  it's  not  downloaded  in, in  the  formats  as  a, as  a  kind  of  file  that's  supposed  to  have thciples  and  tell  R  in  this  case, what  kind  of,  how those  decibles  are  put  in  there. And  so  the  encoding, it  turns  out  that  it's  using the  Latin  one  cutting  file, equating  says  the  lower  case  case  E equals  t  one,  right? It  will  work.  And  so  you know  it  works  because  nothing  came  back. And  that  means  that  DF now  has  the  data  that  we downloaded  and  I  can print  and  get  all  this  beautiful  data. I  don't  know  how  much  of  temp I  forgot  to separate the  same. Yeah. Yeah,  exactly.  Equals. And  then  single  or  double  quote, that's  an  issue  just  tries  to the  Scott  object  to. Okay. One  inside  inside. So  that's  one  and  then  it's  not. Is  that  just  a  Latin  one? Okay.  All  right. So  just  yeah,  I'm having  trouble  come  soot, lead  all  these  lines,  so  you  don't have  a  way  to  lead  like that  in  one  more  line  after  that. I  just  see. So  at  this  time, okay,  believe  you  don't  have  core. We  at  right  after  the  CSP,  that's  the  end. We  needed  an  inter  therefore  question. There  we  go.  Let's  try  just  at  that  point. So  this  work  for  just  the  reason  why  get or you. I'm and  go  here. And  yeah, the  space  users from  slashes see  why  am  I.  D. And  now  we  have  one  types. So  any  time  you  prefer  to  file, do  we  like  put  this  anywhere with  graphs  and  stuff  and  response. Well,  is  it  just  a  word  for  it? This  is  just  first  day. Okay.  Okay.  So  I've got  some  different  things  I  want  to  plot, but  the  next  part  of  this  is  to  understand what  the  data  that  describes where  the  species  has  occurred  looks  like. And  so  there  are different  ways  of  doing  that. The  first  one  is  partly  just show  you  how  GG  plot  works. Gg  plot,  and  then  I  give  it the  data,  just  called  A. Then  I  say,  okay, what's  my  mapping between  the  columns  in  the  data? And  the  different  aesthetics, the  different  features  of graphics  that  I  want  to  release. The  first  aesthetic,  the first  feature  is  that the  port  is  going  to  go to  the  column  called  center  dot  long. Port  is  going  to  co, finally  closes  presenc  plus  geom  point. And  so  we  can  run this  and  we  get  a  map  for  me. I  get  sort  of  a  map  of  the  outline  of the  east  Coast  of  the  Americas. We  don't  see  any  of  the  rest  of  the  Americas. We  don't  see  the  land  mass  activity  that  on. You  could  do  that,  but  why  do mine  lot  fancy  Brad  is  like blow  it  looks  like  you.  Which  the  next  step. Okay.  You  should  open because  it  can  complies the  stuff  we  worry  about. I  want  to  take  it  out  to  like  learn  it, but  it's  very  tempting  to. That's  that's  why  after a  few  more  lines  like  this, I  obviously  have  you  to  yourselves. Okay?  So  that's  just  the  point. That's  a  scattered  plot, scatter  plot  in  space. Just  a  scatter  plot.  Make  it a  little  bit  more  interesting. Let's  look  back  at  the  data  that  we  have in  the  date  we  have  latch  in  B. This  square  thing  is  sort  of  a  way of  defining  each  grid  cell. Don't  worry  about  it. Then  we've  got  depth. That's  the  symmetry  where that  species  found  somehow  deep  it  was  found. Because  that  information,  we  don't, we  don't  know  how  deep  it  was  found. All  the  underlying  data is  where  it  was  found. And  then  they  looked  at the  thymrythtry  data,  says, and  grab  surface  water  tempature. This  is  going  to  be  the  tempature  in the  water  on  an  average  year. Again,  we  don't  have the  data  on  how  hot  the  water was  when  the  species was  actually  found  at  the  location. This  is  useful  because when  we  do  the  projection, we're  not  going  to  know,  we're  not  going  to worry  about  which  part of  the  year  we're  in  anyway. Surface  water  temperature,  water  temperature, salinity  at  the  top and  bottom  primary  production, which  is  how  much,  how  much  ton is  in  the  water. Sea  ice  concentration  between  01, dissolve  bottom  oxygen  and  distance  to  land. Now  I  don't  know  which  of these  is  necessarily  useful. I  think  it'll  be different  for  different  people, which  is  why  this  now goes  to  and  splits different  ways  for  you  guys. But  let  me  just  show  you  how I  looked  at  some  of  the  data. So  I  said,  okay. First  thing  I'd  like  to  do  is  just see  each  of  these  points by  the  temperature  of  the  water  snail. It  automatically  also  adds  here legend  goes  from  a  little  below  ten  degrees  C to  below  30  degrees  C.  You can  see  that  the  dark  colors  are  where  it's coolest  of  the  light  color  surface. What  does  it  look  so  cool  like? It's  like  a  line  now. Well,  here's  two  other  things circling  Ward  for  me. So  everyone,  everyone  has  some  problems, the  change,  another  scattered. But  this  time  I'm  fighting death  versus  surface  water  tempature. Here's,  well  I  didn't  know  what  I  would, what  I  would  expect, but  here's  what  I  find. So  over  here  is  death  on  Xs. Death  on  axis  is  tempature. And  I  see  a  bunch  of observations  right  here  near, very  low  values  of  death. And  then  I  have  all  these  observations with  higher  values  of death  at  the  very  highest  range  tempature. What  do  you  guys  think  is  happening? Why  would  that  be? By  I  don't  necessarily  know  if  what I  think  is  happening there  is  the  right  answer. But  water  tempature  decrease. We  remember,  we  don't, this  is  surface  tempature. Okay.  So  potentially  water  temperature would  decrease  as  you  move  away  from  land. And  so  you  can  check  that.  Okay. But  this  is  a  bottom  dwelling  species. I'm  looking  at  current  surface. Sure.  So  why  would  it  suddenly decide  to  go  to  deep  waters  there? I  think  it's  doing, trying  to  away  from  the  heat. If  it  were  at  the  surface  in  these  areas, then  would  be  experiencing temperatures  that  are  above  25  degrees  C, would  be  coking,  I'm  guessing. And  instead,  those  are exactly  the  locations  where  you  find it  really  key  because that's  where  things  are  core. But  then  let  me  to  wonder,  okay,  well, what's  the  relation  between surface  water  temperature and  bottom  water  temperature? For  a  lot  of  this  area,  they're  fairly  cold. Surface  and bottom  temperatures  are  basically  the  same. Happens  that  these  are exactly  the  locations  where bottom  tempature  is  much  less than  surface  temureh. Would  that  be  the  case? Why  would  the  bottom  actually be  less  than  the  surface? Well,  it's,  it's  generally  going to  be  less  I  would  expect, but  but  why  is  it  that  all  on  here  they're basically  the  same  and that  suddenly  they  go  crazy. It's  only  how  far  off  from  the  shore  you  are. Well,  but  I  don't  know how  far  from  the  shore  you  are. It's  not  on  the  map,  but  I  think  that, that  is  the  crux  of,  of  the  issue. These  points  here  are  the  same as  these  points  at  the  top  there. All  of  these  points  are  places  where the  depth,  the  water,  is  key. All  these  points  are places  where  the  water  is  shallow. Interestingly,  for  the  first  mile I  was  thinking  that  maybe  the  fish  are going  to  such  a  deep  depth at  such  a  high  temperature. Because  like  it  allows  more  range. Like  maybe  they  blame the  warmer  temperatures  but not  the  high  temperatures. So  it  allows  them  to  range  this  control. But  this  says  like  otherwise because  it's  relatively  cold. Not  warm.  Yeah.  They're  they're trying  to  get  to  waters where  the  warmer  waters  and  Yeah. And  then  just  to so  hopefully  clinch  that  theory, I'm  going  to  I'm  going  to  just  first I'm  going  to  now  do  you  my  scatter  plot, but  I'm  going  to  put  me  in  X, Y  just  like  here.  And  also  the  color. I'm  going  to  start  that  first as  just  death.  So. Fails  and  we  actually,  it's  not. So  this  is,  you're seeing  all  these  points  as  being  fairly  low. And  then  you've  got just  a  few  points  that  are  high because  the  depth  is going  to  be  lowlater  somere  interesting  data. And  then  you  can  see  all  these  points  down here  are  the  ones  of  the  higher  depth. So  that  makes  sense, and  that's  where  we  have the  high  surface  temperatures  species, high  school  bottom  temperatures. So  theory,  the  blue  crab is  going  to  move  offshore  to deeper  waters  with  climate  change. All  right,  so  the  question  is, what  do  you  guys  see  with  your  data? If  you  have  these  exact  commands, you'll  get  different  results with  the  different  data. In  addition,  you  might  find  that these  are  quite  the  observations  to  look  at. Actually  ask  you  the  same  thing with  the  bulletin, except  there's  a  much  larger  club interesting  at  a  death. So  yet,  yet  again, it's  at  these  high  temperatures. That's  where  it's  supposed  to  be  going  to. Great.  Yeah,  it's  interesting  and Tua  isn't  a  particularly  at  species,  so  it's, it's  actually  necessarily experiencing  those  temperatures  that might  be,  that's  fine. All  right.  So  you  have  basically a  lot  of  differences  there  which just  to  me  that you  go  to  see  my  computer.  Oh  yeah. Like  yeah.  No,  I  mean, it's  not  like  it's  totally  it's  just  ocean. But  it's  like  a  step  shore. Correct.  All  right. So  I  would  also  look  at the  circuit  everywhere,  not  here. Look  at  like  distance  to  land or  just  to  see  how  that  seems  to I  think  hers  are actually  you  use  data. That's  the  data. If  you  use  a maybe  a  problem,  okay? All  right,  so  let's  just  look  at  the  data. Let's  now  we  want to  construct  a  suitability  function. And  the  key  question  that  I want  to  ask  for  the  suitable  function, So  the  way  that  they  designed their  suitability  functions  was,  they  said, okay,  we  know  where  the minimum  of  each  of these  features  that  it's  observed. Just  we  know  a  10%  level, a  90%  level,  and  a maximum  where  it's  observed. And  this  is  going  to be  our  suitability  function. And  if  we  see  it  anywhere, if  the  conditions  at that  location  are  anywhere  within  the  ten, 90%  of  where  it's  been observed  in  our  dataset,  that  it's  good. And  here  it's  sort  of marginal,  Here  it's  marginal, and  here  that  is  a  certain  that should  tell  us  something  about what  our  own  histogram should  look  like  when  we  look  at our  T.  I'm  going  to  do, I'm  going  to  go  from  scatter  plots  to  where  I have  to  specify  both  x  and  y  to  histograms. So  I'm  specifying  x and  then  rather  point  I'm  going  to do  plus  histogram.  I'm  going  to  run  that. It's  a  long  tail.  Again,  I  hate  long  tails. I  think  I'm  just  going  to  take  a  log of  that  tries  this. This  is  a  plausible  Sudaba.  Not  necessarily. There's, there  are  theoretical  reasons why  you  might  not  want  to use  exactly  this  is  the  Sudaba, but  what  this  suggests  to me  is  that  this  isn't  quite  the  red  model. Instead  you  have  sort of  a  bit  of  a  long  tail, how  far  the  species  can  handle  and a  peak  area  and then  it  doesn't  like it  as  much  as  you  go  further  away. That  that's  you  might  find. The  next  thing  is  do  that for  some of  the  features  that  you  were  looking  at. Look  at  what  your  history  look  like  and in  particular  the  things  you want  to  look  for  me. Give  you  a  couple  of  options. What  I'm  going  to  end  up  using  are  triangle. I'm  going  to  define Puabi  envelopes  that  look  like  this. The  other  easy  suitability  envelope is  a  uniform  suitability  loop. Within  that,  if  you find  that your  suitability  envelope  looks  more  like an  arm  description  to  any  of these  are  easy  to turn  to  suitability  envelopes. We  have  to  have  to  look  at  it  and  see  which, which,  which  is  best  one. Let  me  show  you  one  more  thing,  which is  tretstme, but  this  is  a  bad  weight, thought  depth,  because  we're just  have  like  log  values  on  the  x  axis. The  right  way  to  do  this  for your  reference  is to  another  scale,  x  110. And  then  we  get  the  exacting  brac. Wl,  x  axis  is  properly  little  is  like 11000000  scale  scale,  lo  ten. You  can,  that's,  that's  the  way  you tell  that  one  of your  X  should  be  on  a  low  scale. So  I  put  in  the  surface  work, think  you  have  a  location. So  that  has  to  be  a  says  something. Yeah.  So  that's  for  one  to  the  tails. To  the  very. Yeah.  So  that's  that  counts. Also  long  shown,  it's  interesting  how  many. Okay.  The  scope  special  considerations  for other  either  zeros  for systems  arch  or  non  zero. So  this  part  doesn't  have  anything  else. Six  zeros  doctors.  Just  low  values. This  is  why  17  inch. I'm  just  saying  that  a  distinct part  of  the  distribution, it  could  also  be  that  40  Great. Where  it's  observed  because this  is  where  it's a  Talking  People  people just  option  two  gray  chart  seals, seals  in  the  shore. It  might  like  this  issue might  be  and  this  might be  a,  a  sore. Hopefully,  just  sort  of  shouse  that  person we  call  situations  were these  are  sometimes  they're  just  before. Okay. Let  me  let  me  show  you  a  couch  now, whether  your  daughter  turns  this  into a  civil  civil  suitability,  Okay? Okay. You  guys,  what  did  you  guys  discover  for the  kinds  of  distributions  that  figure  data? Does  anyone  have  any  uniform  distributions would  have  that  yet  to  the  right?  No. Okay.  This  is  this  is a  little  income  for  actually  working  with maybe  maybe  you'll  use  the  uniform  as  a  as a  representation  of  the  track. Any  would  have  actual  things that  look  like  triangles. All  right.  Well  these  are  all  argument. The  other  thing  is  we're  going the  distributions  that  we  see, they  are  the  intersection, the  interaction  between  the  suitability for  each  of  the  different  dimensions. So  there's a  sort  multivariate  distribution  that we're  actually  trying  to  represent  times. Also  the  distribution  of where  people  are  to  observe  things. We  ideally  would  do  something  like divide  out  the  effect of  observation  and  then, and  then  it,  this all  as  a  big  utara  description. But  I'm  going  to  show  you  how  to  do  it  one  at a  time  since  it's  fairly  common  dicta. First  I'm  just  going  to  show you  how  to  pump  this  stuff. It's,  this  is  more  complicated  than actually  doing  the  model. In  order  to  plot a  triangular  distribution  on top  of  the  systramsI've  got, I  need  to  create  new  data  frame,  right? There's  a  case  where you  don't  need  difference, but  usually  with  GG  plot  you  want to  put  things  into a  frame  and  then  plot  the  data  in  dataframe. So  I  want  to  make  a  triangular  distribution. Label  my  points  here  where the  x  portage  goes  from the  minimum  to  the  median. The  maximum  and  then  the  y  quart. It  doesn't  matter  how  high  everything  scales, but  it  goes  from  zero  to  some  number, I  put  it  number  30  x  zero. So  that's,  that's  what  we're  seeing  here. X  goes  min  max  y  goes  0300. And  now  I  can  compare  that  to, note  that  I  do  that  all  for  depth. By  the  way,  I  do  this  for  log  depth, I'll  get  the  same  numbers  if  I, if  I  do  for  depth  and  do  log  out first  I  do  for  depth and  now  I  plug  both  the  triangle  and the  same  post  and get  something  looks  like  this. That's  the  operation  you  can  tell. I  mean  I'm  I'm  claiming  that  this  wore  is super  suitable  when  actually go  see  that  the  species  there. My  hope  is  that  when  I interact  two  of  these  together, that  this  line  will  turn into  sort  of  a  quadratic  something  going  on. It's  not  what  actually  it's  happening, but  what  if  it's the  triangle  point  and the  actual  data  don't  match  up? How  far  are  the  unit  relatively  just. Yeah,  it's  because  you  have this  huge  chunk  of  the  distribution  there. I  think  that  you  probably don't  want  to  mess  with  that because  your  way  you're going  to  hit  this  peak  and  also this  long  area  is  by  having  two  triangles. That's  going  to  be  prostitutes.  It's  okay. And  do  the  same  thing  for  surface  age. I'm  sure  it's  something  again  that looks  function,  that's  okay. So  now  now  we're  going  to  actually make  the  suitability  envelope. And  then  we  can also  do  things  like  figure  out  what  happens. We  can  my  leaf  because I'm  using  triangular  distribution. Actually,  I'm  actually  treating  this  like a  probability  density  function and  that's  going  to  help  with  the  math. That's  going  to  mean  that  there  are functions  already  in for  evaluating  these  triangles  at  any They  happen  to  be  in  another  a different  labor  M,  steps. So  you  have  to  have  to  do probably  install  packages  and  sets. It's  it's  much  more  pack  so  it shouldn't  take  one  for  you  installed. Say  that.  But  I  don't  understand  that. And  then  I'm  going  to construct  the  trig  descriptions. This  is  the  way  that  this  is  set  up. It's  very  important  that  feature. So  triangle. Triangle  is  the  density  function. F  function  evaluates  the  density  function of  the  triangular  triangular distribution  at  different  points. The  first  argument  here is  which  points  we  want  to  evaluate  as. Then  over  here  it's  going  to be  the  different  points  in  the  triangle. And  specifically  it's  going  to  be um,  value  of  triangle, maximum  value  of  triangle over  the  median  value  of  the  trianpole. Do  the  same  thing  in  both  cases. Note  that  these  three  values, these  three  things  here  are  just  numbers. If  I  say,  you  know  what  that looks  like,  Spence,  Spence, then  those  are  just  numbers  in  a  half, 28.24  This  first  argument  though isn't  just  a  single  number, it's  ambiglus  numbers. I'm  going  to  be  evaluating  that  triangle defined  by  those  three  numbers at  every  one  of  these  numbers. Now  I'm  going  to  put  that  result, the  result  of  that  is  going  to  be the  height  triangle  back into  a  new  column  in  my  data  frame. I'm  going  to  do  that  for a  temptureI'm  do  depth, you  might  have  different  parameters that  you  decide  to  use. That's  super  fast. So  let  me  just  look  at the  my  data  from  again  and now  it's  all  the  columns  that  we  had before  plus  now  there are  two  additional  columns. And  they're  basically  how suitable  is  the  temperature and  how  suitable  is  the  death. Let  me  run  these  last  two  and then  chick  with  you  guys. So  now  I'm  going  to do  actually  these  two don't  necessarily  make  too  much  of  those  for you  that  try  them, but  they  might  not  work  out  as  well. I'm  plotting  the  histogram, and  then  I'm  plotting  a  bunch  of points  at  the  same  locations. One  axis  but  where  the  y  axis  is, how  suitable  it  is. And  I  can  only  make those  two  line  up  if  I  multiply these  scores  by  1,000 because  I  have  roughly  1,000  points, 1,000  observations, you're  more  or  less  observations, we  probably  need  to  have  a  different. And  so  here's  what  I  get  for  depth. And  you  can  see, you  could  see  underneath  those  points, you  could  see  the  triangle. But  why  is  it  that  the  points aren't  just  at  the  top  of  the  triangle? That  does  make  sense. By  my,  like  if  I, if  I  say  this  was  just  the  depth  score, then  I  get  a  perfect  triangle. But  if  I  say  depth with  tempera  score  times  set  score, then  I  get  a  folding  triangle. It's  folding  triangle  because all  these  points  are  perfectly  suitable, say  for  depth,  but  not  suitable  for, not  as  suitable  for  temperature. I  get  a  little  bit  of the  feature  that  I  wanted  which is  as  you  move  over  to  this  area, this  looks  like  it, Folded  Holloway,  That's  useful. So  you  can  do  this  if  you want  the  next  Actually, yeah,  do  this  and  make sure  that  you  can  get  something  like  this. And  then  the  next  step  will  be projecting  on  the  Sutta. Turns  out  to  be  super easy  once  you've  gotten  this  far. I  should  pose the  questions.  Seven,  15  minutes. Okay.  So  now  I  want  to  generate  the  suitable, the  suitable  range  map. And  so  this  is  the  map  of all  locations  across  the  world where  the  species  would find  temperature  and  depth  to  be  suitable. In  order  to  get that  in  this  CCE  contrary  four, then  you  have  to  grab  this  H, you  have  to  open  it  up.  So  here's  H. It  actually  I'm  going  to  copy because  I'm  not  sure  if  it's  how. Okay.  So  if  you  have  this in  a  directory  that  you know  about  and  you  open  it  up, it  these  two  files, the  metadata  just  tells  you  what  kind  of information  is  in  the  dataset. H,  T,  B  underscore  B,  six. Tsp  is  a  tap  separated  files like  common  separated  files  with  taps. It  has  for  every  location  in  the  ocean, every  one  of  our  environmental  conditions, depth  sub  centure,  so  on. And  it  has  that  for  1950, for  the  year  2000, initial  999205029,  anything  in  2090. So  we  can,  we  can  do the  exact  things  to find  out  where  the  species is  suitable  narrow  and  where  it's suitable  insured  to  read. And  then  what  I  want  you  to do  is  basically  use that  to  find  out  where the  species  is  suitable  across  the  blokes. So  you  downloaded. Do  want  to  do  you  want  to  do  this  file? You  Okay. Yeah.  Yeah,  that's  here. Okay.  And  then  the last  this  morning  with  chats  here, open  files  back,  that  is a  clip  that  Here  you  go  to  being you  could  take  take  back. I  mean,  this  is  like  what  occurred. So  you  haven't  No,  that  was  Yes, I  before  the  the  Thank  you. Just  to  let  you  know.  What  about  here? The  next  two  lines,  they look  at  the  top  of  this. But  if  you  look  at  the  top  of  the  data, there  are  actually  two  many  falls to  see  how  there. And  so  I  want  to  look  at  what all  the  columns  of  data  are. So  to  do  that,  the  names  of TF,  and  that's  where  it  says, okay,  I've  got  the  last,  I've  got  death. I  actually  have  minimum, maximum  inciviation of  death  within  that  cell. So  it's  better  data  than  the more  using  we'll  just  use Def  then for  all  the  things  that  change  in  time. But  all  the  others  we  have  like sea  surface  temperature  99, bottom  temperature  99. And  we'll  also  have  the  same  thing  with  SST 2,100  System  2,100  Did  you  vote  put? No.  Sorry,  I  All  right. So  we  have  a  few  minutes. How  do  we  how  do  we  construct these  envelopes?  That's  a  good  question. I'm  going  to  I'm  going  to  give  you a  answer  so  that you  actually  can  see  the  end  result. I'm  going  to  take the  exact  same  code  that  had here  because  that  constructed  the  envelopes. It  just  applied  it  to only  those  places  where, where  the  thing  was  observed. But  instead  I'm  going  to,  so  now  I've  got  to deb  into  two,  submit  two, I'm  going  to  put  the surface  temperature  thing  which  is  SST 199092  and  then  death we're  going  to  toward  death,  me. And  I'm  going  to  put  this  up  back  in  it to  not  that  works. Now  we  could  Maxa'm  going  to I'll  just  show  you  what  the  maps look  like  possible. Now,  within  gift  to  our  remark  is  that  we have  we  have  all  locations that  are  the  web  and  we  have  the suitability  of  every  location. Let's  do  acetic. We're  going  to  tell  GG  plot  about  this  X are  the  x  location is  central  long  in  this  case. Not  that  there's  no.in center  dot.  Why  is  center? I'm  going  to  say  Phil, Phil  is  going  to  be we're  going  to  make  a  grid  and  we  want the  inside  color  of  each  rid  cell  bathing. If  you  did  color,  do the  outline  of  each  Ridell, Phil  is  going  to  be  first. Temscorerasterster  is  basically  a  B  grid and  these  are  the  regions that  are  suitable  for  my  blue  crap. Now  this  is  just  temperature  wise, but  of  course  I  want to  know  where  is  it  suitable  both for  temperature  and  for  death temp  score  times  step  score. I  get  basically  something that  looks  exactly  like  what  Acer  maps have  where  it's  all  across  the  globe but  it's  hugging  pretty  close  to the  shore  in  about  the  same  regions. So  that's  what  they  look  like. Minus  and  then  what do  they  look  like  in  the  future? 21  is  that  changes score  2,100  scored  2,100 and  I  just  didn't  change  this  hundred. Death  is,  can  be  the  same. Actually  I  don't  need  content  score. Death  doesn't  change  the  fang. And  now  I  can  say,  all  right, give  me  the  exact  same  thing but  give  me  T  score 2,100  If  you  split  you'll  be  able  to  see that  these  areas  have fewer  species  and  the  areas for  the  temperate  zones  have  more  species. That  was  all  stuff  that  we  could  have  gotten already  from  Ok  Maps. Last  thing  I  can  do  is get  something  that's  different  which is  tell  me  what  the  difference is  and  I'm  going to  do  that  by  saying, what  is  the  difference in  before  the  new  score  minus  the  old  score? I  guess  something  that  has  a  lot  of  zero, that's  what  all  this  blue  is. Well, it  wasn't  usually  suitable  there  anyway, So  let's  get  rid  of  all  those  zeros. When  I'm  going  to  give  these  zeros, I'm  going  to  see  if  death scores  greater  than  zero, then  giving  this  thing. If  death  score  is  zero, you  meet  a  will, then  gray  out  all  those  areas. By  the  way,  you  are publication  this  far  it  gets  super  skin. I'm  going  to  stop  from  Erskine  by, I'm  going  to  change  the  fill  scale. Remember  how  I  said  scale x  ten?  The  scale,  Phil? Radius  two  can  change  the  name  of  it  to  be. So  this  is  just  going  to,  it's going  to  shrink this  name  which  was the  main  thing  that  was  stopping you  from  aping  my  home  map. All  right. Now  going  to  map  and  I  can see  where  there  are  increases  in  blue, say  a  Scotia  decreases. Apparently  this  whole  area  around  the  mount, the  Amazon  is  going to  have  a  lot  of  few  caps. The  way  that  I  like  seen this  the  best  was  when  I  actually took  that  difference  and  I  divided  it by  the  baseline  value. So  because  now  nothing. Let's  see  how  I  did  before. You  look  at  some, say  oh,  I  have  to  clip  it. So  this  ratio, the  difference  scoresfed  by  the  basco, ends  up  having  some  numbers which  are  enormous. You  can  see  the  delgaz  is  in  thousands, but  there  are  very  few  of  those  locations. The  reason  is  that  these  are  locations  where the  species  was  very  largely  suitable. Slightly  greater  than  zero  initial  value, and  then  no  reason  suitable. And  so  it's  got  a  F  number, so  I  have  to  basically say  that  difference  is  going  to  be  big. Then  just  one, I  should  be  explaining all  of  this  a  little  bit  more  than  that, but  I  just  want  to  show you  that's  what  I  get. So  ignore  all  of  this  stuff.  Across  world, you  have  essentially  100%  loss  of blue  crab  Amazon  veins  that are  going  from  not  being  suitable  at  all to  perfectly  reasonably suitable  in  separate  zones. That's  all  you  project  things. Questions,  please. The  last full.
