Are  you  looking  for  a  address  furs  travel  in? My  mom  I  think  I  used  my  kit. No  indication  by  Yeah. When  I  sent  it.  It  usually  asks like  I  didn't  want  to send  e  mails  on  the  first. We  Okay. Okay.  All  right. Okay.  Okay.  So  Sunday  today, if  we  get  to  have some  first  thing  is  a  point  about  readings. I  offered  an  alternative  reading. Then  we're  going  to  do  Travis  and talk  paper  presentations  and  then  I'm  going to  give  you  guys  more  information  on basiscenarios  probably should  have  done  that  early, good  times  and  then  we'll  get into  risks.  I  mentioned. Yeah.  Physical  risks. Okay.  So  originally  I  had just  assigned  climate  comometrics by  Sam  and  this  is a  really  important  and  challenging  paper. It's  great  if  you  plan  on  doing research  in  these  kinds  of  tech. If  you  want  to  study the  risk  of  climate  change from  a  clerical  standpoint, then  it's  the  paper  to  read. There's  lots  of  fun  math  in  there. There's,  there's  beautiful  graphics  like  it's not  just  a  paper. It's,  it  has  a  fairly  gentle  discussion around  all  of  the  complicated  math that  it  wants  to  talk  about. Actually  the  math  isn't  so  complicated, but  next,  partial  derivatives, so  if  you're  going  to  be  a  metric, can  and  you  think  you  might  want  to  do some  more  for  this,  it's,  it's  great. It  also  discusses  some  of the  key  impacts  that  they're  going  on. I  assigned  it  last  time and  started  to  get people  coming  to  me  after  a  signed  saying, this  is  this  is  too  dense. I  said  don't  worry about  just,  you  know,  taking  what  you  can. But  the  alternative  is that  the  same  year,  2016, Carlton  and  Shun  produced a  literature  review  of  all of  the  current  state  of knowledge  across  a  bunch  of different  impacts  of  what, what  we  know  about physical  and  economic  impacts. So  this  is  in American  Economic  Reviewer  or  some  such. This  is  in  science, so  it's  targeted  at  a  general  audience. It's  less  fun  from a  media theoretical  perspective  because  just  like, okay,  in  this  area,  here's what  we  know  and  here's  how  we  know, this  area,  here's  what  we  know, here's  what  we  know. But  vastly  more  readable  than  that, We'll  reach  to  dig  to  either  line. Okay.  So  then  rather than  use  up  the  time  of  Travis  and  Tukey, we'll  switch  right  to  them. We're  going  to  start  with  Travis  because chronologically  it  makes  more  sense  and  yeah, so  All  right, so  this  is  the  Cern  Review, a  very,  very  popular  paper. It  was  written  in  2006. And  we're  going  to  be  looking specifically  at  part  two, which  is  the  impacts  of climate  change  on  growth  and  development, which  is  shred  65  to  103. Thank  goodness  I  did  not  have  to read  all  600  pages. So  this  is  the  presentation. There's  the  paper. Okay.  So  these  are the  sections  of  the  report  that  I  looked  at. 3.2  to  3.9  looks  at  water, food,  health,  land,  infrastructure, environment  non  linear  changes  in  thresholds, which  is  like  compounding  effects and  things  that  aren't  near  linear. And  then  implications  of climate  change  for  development,  introduction, vulnerability  of  developing  countries to  changing  climate, and  direct  implications  of climate  change  for  health, livelihood,  and  such. So  this  is  really  dense. So  bear  with  me,  there's  a  lot  in this  report  you  can for  just  such  a  brief  section, literature  and  context,  it's a  monumental  study. It  was  one  of  the  first  of  its  kind to  integrate economics  into  climate  reports  of  the  time. It's  synthesized  global  data and  reports  on  climate  change  such  as, I  do  not  want  to  mispronounce grass  at  all,  hair  and  warren. But  the  previous  studies were  limited.  They  talked  about  that. So  Hilton  Smith  were  not  able  to  determine if  the  increase  was  linear  or exponential  in  climate  impacts. And  just  for  more  context, the  IPCC  2007  report was  published  after  the  Stern  review. And  Stern  also  said that  it  like  validated  everything that  he  said  and actually  it  was  a  little  bit  worse.  But Methods.  It's  not  necessarily  like  a normal,  like  scientific  report. It's  more  a  review. It  compiled  all  these  different scientific  reports,  put  them  together, organize  information  and  added  onto it  with  perspectives  from Stern  and  other  reports. Something  to  talk  about because  it's  talked  about  a  lot  in  the  paper is  carbon  fertilization  increases  in  CO two  lead  to  increased  photosynthesis, promotes  plant  growth  and benefits  crop  productivity. We  know  that  we've  seen  it  in  isolation with  leaves  and  labs  and  things  like  that. But  in  the  context  of  climate  change, some  people  have  stuff  to  say. Proponents  that  say  that carbon  fertilization  will  lessen the  effects  of  climate  change. Say,  for  example, a  representative  Lamar  Smith, who  is  a  Republican  from  Texas, says  a  higher  concentration  of  carbon  dioxide in  our  atmosphere  would  aid  photosynthesis, which  in  turn  contributes to  increased  plant  growth, correlates  to  greater  bom  of  food  production. Better  body  opponents  argue  that the  proponents  are  ignoring the  long  term  impacts  of  CO  two  rise, which  I  also  agree  with  over  here. And  climate  change.  It's  Richard  Norby who  is  a  corporate  research  fellow, says  that  it's  not  appropriate  to  look  at CO  two  fertilization  effect  in  isolation. You  can  have  positive  and negative  effects  going  on  at  once, but  the  net  balance  matters  and  that's  what he  agrees  that  skeptics  are  not  looking  at. I  more  so  agree  with the  fact  that  they're  not  looking at  the  long  term  impacts. But  yes,  how  climate  change will  affect  people  around  the  world. The  importance  of  water, over  half  the  world's  drinking  water  is  taken directly  from  rivers  and  thwares and  the  rest  is  from  groundwater. Over  here  you  can  see  a  graph  from  the  paper. And  essentially  it  has three  different  scenarios. And  it  also  has  high  and  low  bounds which  are  hard  to  see. They  are  a  little  bit  faded  light, but  there  are  three  different  scenarios. It's  a  low  population  scenario, which  is  7  billion  people  by  2080, which  we've  already  passed. Medium  population,  10  billion  and  then red  population  is  15  billion, that's  the  population  trajectories  by  2080. And  it  shows  also  the  upper  and  lower  bounce. And  you  can  see  temperature  rise over  here  at  millions  at  risk  up  here. Even  in  the  low  population  scenario, you  have  about  1  billion  to  2  million  people at  risk  of  water  stress, millions  at  risk  of  water  stress. Then  in  the  high  scenarios, you  have  like  devastating  impacts of  like  this  is decreased  and  this  is  increase. You  have  around  like  4  billion  people at  risk,  which  is  insane. Even  in lower  balance  billions  people  are  at  risk and  proper  water management  infrastructure  can  help, but  that's  costly  and  some  people don't  have  access  to  those  resources. Food,  interesting  statistics. Agriculture  currently  accounts  for 24%  of  world  output, this  is  in  2006. Numbers  might  be  different,  but  at  the  time, 22%  of  the  global  population, 75%  of  the  poorest  people  in  the  world live  in  rural  areas  and rely  on  agriculture  for  livelihood. The  paper  states  that  with two  to  three  degrees  Celsius  warming, there  are  some  warming  benefits for  higher  latitudes. But  they  state  that  does  not factor  in  transition  costs  or population  movement  and  it doesn't  factor  in  weather  events,  it's  huge. But  then  once  you  start  getting  into three  to  4  Celsius  warming with  a  weak  carbon  fertilization  effect, carbon  fertilization  doesn't  really  help  out. In  off  putting  climate  change, there's  a  5%  global cereal  production  decline  with two  degrees  Celsius  and  10% before  it  gets  worse  after  that. You  can  see  in  this  graph that  even  with  a  strong  carbon  fertilization, developing  countries  experienced significant  cereal  production  decline across  all  three  models,  the  GISS,  GFDL, and  UKML  models,  and a  weak  CSN  Aa  would  be  even  more  devastating. This  graph  right  here  is  a  percent  change, and  you  can  see  globally  there  is a  decrease  in  developed  countries. They  do  experience  a  greater  increase in  their  production  due  to  warming. Developing  countries  are significantly  impacted. This  is  assuming  a  strong carbon  fertilization  effect if  it  was  a  weak  one. Developed  countries  might  not  even experience  a  benefit,  if  any. Also  in  terms  of  food. There  is  a  lot  of  different  impacts  and it's  a  wide  range  in this  table  I  won't  read  at  all, but  it  goes  over  it. Loss  of  central  species, increased  incans  of  flooding, forest  and  crop  fires, climate  induced outbreaks  of  pests  and  disease, and  rising  surface  boson which  all  impact  food  production. For  example,  increased  inco, losses  to  US  corn  production  from water  logging  could  double in  the  next  30  years. And  it  would  cost  estimate 3  billion  per  year,  which  is  insane. Also  speaking  of  food, malnutrition  is  a  huge  issue as  well  as  water  stress. In  terms  of  health  to  the  left, you  have  increase  in disease  vectors  and  also malnutrition,  things  like  it. You  can  see  annual  deaths, 2  million  from  diarrheal  diseases, 1.1  million  for  malaria,  those  are  annually, those  numbers  are  expected  to  increase by  47,000  27,000  respectively, for  every  2%  that  climate  change  contributes. And  over  here  we  also  have  a  graph that  shows  cold  and  heat  related  deaths. They  state  in  the  paper  that cold  related  deaths  would  increase, and  you  can  see  that  blue  line  is  2005, and  then  the  pink, purple  line  is  2050. It's  shifted  right,  due  to the  effects  of  climate  change. So  there  will  be  fewer  cold  related  deaths, but  there  will  be much  more  heat  related  deaths. And  some  areas  might  get  even  colder, have  to  factor  that  into  account. But  overall,  generally,  there  will be  less  cold  related  deaths. Yeah,  And  also  there's disproportionate  impacts on  poor  populations  that  don't have  access  to  resources or  like  health  related  resources, hospitals,  medicine  and  things  like  that. A  big  point  that  they  made  is  malaria. 40  to  60  million  people  increase  And  people exposed  to  malaria  in  Africa  at  two  degrees Celsius  warming  and  beyond two  degrees  Celsius, 70  to  80  million  increase. And  I  can  only  imagine  that would  go  up  beyond. But  this  assumes  that  there's no  change  in  malaria  control  efforts. Kee,  malaria  control  efforts. Also  they  talk  about  how the  water  cycle  can  increase, increase  the  disease  factors. Things  like  floods  and  fungus  floods enable  the  growth  of certain  fungus  that  may  have. In  terms  of  land, more  than  200  million  people live  in  coastal  flood  plains around  the  world  with $1  trillion  worth  of  assets, less  than  1  meter  in elevation  of  current  sea  level. This  represents  a  huge  economic  loss if  that  land  is  flooded, as  well  as  displacement of  millions  of  people. They  talk  about  sea  level  rise  and storm  surges  that  threaten  the  populations. They  specifically  emphasize  that  South  Asia, East  Asia,  African  Coast, and  small  island  areas  are  most  vulnerable. The  three  to  4  Celsius  increase in  warming  for low  population  growth  will  be 770  million additional  people  flooded  annually. But  with  high  population  growth, that's  20  to  300  million. And  estimates  of  150  to  200  million  people permanently  displaced  by  infrastructure, which  is  talked  about  in  the  land. Increase  in  hazard,  frequency and  intensity  can affect  the  stability  of  infrastructures, as  well  as  impacting  soil  stability. If  certain  soils  we  see,  like  Florida, where  the  limestone  is  degraded  from that  seawater  intrusion and  creates  the  Skles, it  can  affect the  stability  of  infrastructure. This  is  with  a  relative  increase  in damages  for  peak  wind  speed, and  you  can  see  that  as  it  increases, it  just  goes  crazy. 25%  increase  in  peak  gust causes  almost  seven  fold increase  in  building  damages. This  is  an  extreme  financial  burden, especially to  developing  countries  where  they  don't have  access  to  resources, financial  resources. They  can  receive resources  from  other  countries, but  that  is  not  a  guarantee. And  also,  again, we  don't  want  to  happen  in  the  first  place. In  terms  of  the  environment, two  degrees  Celsius  warming  results  in  15, 40%  of  species  vulnerable  to  extinction. Three  would  put  it  at 20  to  50  of land  species  at  risk  of  extinction, extreme  losses  of  biodiversity. Four  to  five  degrees  Celsius, they  say  is  unclear,  but it  would  just  devastate  ecosystems. Also  the  problem  with this  is  that  there's  a  little  uncertainty. Because  certain  animals rely  on  other  animals, there's  that  important  connection in  the  food  web and  things  like  that  animal  web  that  might be  disrupted  and  cause even  further  loss  of  species. They  go  on  to  talk  about non  linear  changes  in  threshold  effects. They  give  examples  of  tipping  points  and compounding  effects  that  could collapse  Earth  ecosystems. For  example,  the  shutdown  of  the  AMOC, which  is  the  Atlantic  Merit Meridinald  overturning  circulation, which  is  a  circulation  in the  Atlantic  Ocean  that causes  circulation  of  water. If  shut  down,  I  believe like  Europe  would  experience  like severe  winters  because  it helps  circulate  warm  water  to  that  region. They  give  some  phenomena, they  give  global  temperature  rise, relative  confidence, and  references  to  the  papers  again here  they  call  it the  North  Atlantic  Thermohaline  Circulation. I  think  that  name  is  that  weakening of  North  Atlantic  thermohalen  circulation. Substantial  melting  of  Antarctic  ice  sheet. They  talk  about  different  non  linear  changes where  it  could  cause sitting  points  and  effects. The  conclusion for  chapter  three  of  the  paper, and  I  will  dive  a  little  bit  in  chapter  four, is  climate  change  affects all  facets  of  society  globally. Initial  benefits  for high  latitudes  with  low  warming, which  is  12  degrees  Celsius, but  anything  beyond that  poses  severe  effects. And  also  the  low  warming might  not  factor  in  weather events  and  such  like  that. Compounding  effects  exacerbate damages  and  impacts  with potential  reversible  tipping  points and  devastating  collapses. Something  that  they  wanted  to  emphasize is  that  poverty  in  developing  countries and  regions  that  are disproportionately  affected  by climate  change  and  other  latitudes do  not  receive  the  same  benefits. While  richer  countries  and more  privileged  countries  might receive  some  amount  of  benefits, developing  countries  do  not  receive the  same  warmer  countries  experience  impacts with  relatively  little  increases  in warming  due  to  already  high and  regional  4.1  strikes. To  get  into  how  developing  countries  and poised  areas  will  be disproportionately  impacted. How  geographical  challenges will  be  exacerbated, and  uncertainties  in  developing  countries  and growth  may  change vulnerability  to  climate  change. The  thing  that  they  want  to  emphasize  is limiting  impacts  to mitigation  and  adaptation. Mitigating  what  emissions  that  we  can  and adapting  to  the  effects that  we  will  already be  guaranteed  to  experience. They  talk  about the  vulnerability  of  developing  countries. A  statistic  that  really  stood  out to  me  was  that  in  2003, India  experienced  peak  temperatures between  45  degrees  Celsius  and  49, which  is  like  120  degrees  Fahrenheit, which  is  horrifying  during the  pre  monsoon  months  of  2003. That  was  all  the  way  back  in  2003  and  I can't  even  imagine  how frequent  that  may  happen. Now,  ecosystem  degradation  will disproportionately  impact  those  who rely  on  these  systems. Over  here  you  can  see poverty  aspects,  function  and  description. They  talk  about  different ways  that  people  rely on  the  environment  for  their  livelihoods, diversified  for  strategies  for excites  that  are maintained  in  economies  time. Market  integration  talks about  food  and  caching, common  periods  of unexpected  food  and  income shortfall,  things  like  that. There's  a  lot,  there's  a  lot of  information  in  this  report. It's  crazy  direct  implication of  climate  change  for  health, livelihoods,  and  growth. They  talk  about  significant  impacts through  weather  and  degradation  of  climate. It's  really  hammering  home  how  bad  it  is. Over  96%  of  all  disaster  related  deaths worldwide  in  recent  years have  occurred  in  developing  countries. They  want  to  highlight  that  inequity  that  is occurring  colder  regions may  experience  benefits, but  overall  climate  change  is  expected  to worsen  health  outcomes  substantially. Health  risks  impacting  develop mental  health  and  productivity,  all  of  that. They  also  talked  about  how risk  management  will  put people  in  an  even  worse  spot. Because  as  people  are  coping,  for  example, they  say  switching  to low  risk  crops  so  that  way  they  can maintain  their  income  may actually  decrease  their  income  over  time. And  also  selling  assets to  cope  with  those  standards, people  are  put  in  an  even  worse  spot  for a  longer  period  also  impacts the  government  spending  cuts  as  country try  mitigate  and  adapt  to  fun. Discussion  and  broader  implications. It's  the  same  thing  that  it's  been  saying. It  poses  a  significant  threat. Developing  countries  and impoverished  communities will  be  disproportionately  impacted. It  needs  to  be  addressed  through interdisciplinary  observations and  discussions  globally, and  must  include  diverse communities  to  ensure  equity. The  Stern  Review  highlights the  extreme  scale  and  how it  impacts  everyone  globally. Since  the  Stern  Review, Stern  himself  has  stated that  he  has  underestimated the  severity  of  the  situation, saying  that  emissions  are growing  much  faster  than  he  thought the  absorbaive  capacity  of  the  planet. It's  less  than  we  thought. The  risk  of  greenhouse  gases are  potentially  bigger, are  potentially  bigger  than more  cautious  estimates and  the  speed  of  climate  change seems  to  be  fast. Some  criticisms  and  areas  of  improvement. I  thought  that  while  the  review  material was  relatively  accessible, a  lot  of  people  could read  it  and  understand  it. There's  an  incredible  amount of  information  in  this  report. A  summary  of all  this  information  and  something  like, even  briefer  than  what they  could  do  would  help  out a  lot  in  comprehensibility and  accessibility  to  people. They  do  have  like  key message  boxes  in  the  report which  are  really  nice and  summarize  the  information. There  are  significant  levels  of uncertainty  that  are  not discussed  or  under  discussed. In  my  opinion,  they do  talk  about  uncertainty  in  the  report. But  this  is  so much  so  many  interconnected  areas  and  facets of  society  that  I  wish that  they  would  have  like an  entire  section,  at  least  section. I  didn't  didn't  have  it. By  wish  they  had  an  entire  section talking  about  the  uncertainty, especially  from  other  reports, as  it's  often  transferred  into  the  review, but  it  can  be  mitigated  with  proper  analysis. More  discussion  on  marginalized  communities and  how  we  can  prove  in  foster  equity that  you  talk  about  developing  countries and  impoverished  communities. But  I  would  like  to  have  seen a  greater  discussion  on  environmental  justice and  how  the  differences in  equity  and  impact  populations. And  there  are  my  references and  there's  my  thanks. So  I've  seen  Stern,  middle  name.  Yes. Yes.  He  goes  by, I  think  it's  like  a  Lord, it's  his  title  and  it's  like Lord  Nicholas  Herbert  Stern.  Yeah. Question,  a  threat. So  the  thing  I  think  is,  is  interesting. So  this  is  back  in  2006  and  yet  my  sense  is that  everything  we've  learned in  the  last  20  years  falls into  more  or  less  the  same  categories  that  he has  here  and  more  or  less  reinforces  it. Did  you  in  the  in the  critique  stuff,  you  I  was. What  was  your  references but  was  there  anything  was  was  it just  from  so  that came  out  right  after  the  report  or  did  you s  so  like  the  review  of  the  papers  from  Yeah. Well,  did  you  did  you  look  at any  responses  to  Mr. Review  or  did  you  were  you  just  the  others, were  those  just  the  things  that  went  into  it? Because  I  was  curious.  I  did  look  at  like  how people  responded  to  the  report and  some  people  were  like, oh,  you  know,  it's it's  below  me,  stuff  like  that. They're  like,  you  know, it,  I  forget  the  proper  terminology, but  it  takes  away  value from  the  future  and  adds  value to  acting  now  without addressing  like  how  much  it  would  cost, it  would  be  super  costly  at  now. But  other  people  are  like,  this is  great,  this  is  a  great  report. I  thought  it  was  very  good  and  then Stern  said  that  the  2007 IPCC  report  that  comes  out  after  this. Kind  of  verified  what  he  had  said. And  yeah, the  reporter  pulls  from  like  papers  in 2,003.4  some  of  them are  so  the  ser  review specifically  on  or  it's going  to  economic  consequences, the  AECC  has  never  done  that. Well,  part  of  the  reason  why  we  need the  serve  review  was  because  it was  just  sort  of  this  big  gap. The  paper  that  talkies reviewing  is  which  is  2015. So  so  a  decade  later  was  in  turn, by  some  measures  the  first  attempt to  do  the  same  thing  for  the  US. And  some  of  an  economic  estimate of  the  impacts  of  climate  change. Okay.  But  you  still have  very  little  information  on  the  stuff. Yeah,  I  especially  want  to  find  like similar  graphs  from the  Stern  Review.  I  really  like. It's  like  a  very  big  chart  where  it  says zero  to  five  degrees  of  warming. It  shows  the  impacts  for each  degree  and  economic  impacts, health  impacts,  and  things  like  that. I  want  to  find  something  impact.  Why? Yeah,  There  are  not  many  reports, like  certain  report  and  I  feel like  we  know  the  impacts  of  climate  change, but  there  still  needs  to  be  work  and the  economic  impacts  listens. Yeah. And  also  we  need  to  actually do  something  because the  UN  and  things  like  that, they're  like,  it's  bad. They  don't  do  every year  with  you.  About  how?  It's  worse. It's  like  we  know  it's  worse  now, we  need  to  do  something. Could  you  go  back  to  that  slide? Sorry,  I  just  under  Yeah. Yeah.  So  this  is  less  than  10  meters/second of  peak  wind  speed. And  so  it  kind  of  goes  up. But  once  you  get  past that  threshold,  damages increase  significantly. And  that's  relative  increase  in  damages. I  don't  what  the  yeah.  Okay. And  then  a  second  question  just about  like  your  opinion on  that  graph  in  particular? Like  I  I  love  the  report. I  think,  you  know,  I  agree  with their  findings  or  whatever,  we  do  like  that. But  do  you  think  it's  a  little  bit misleading  that  they  have  just  above  25? Yeah,  because  her  case  start  at 33  meters/second  and  it's  like  yes. So  it's  kind  of,  it's  kind  of  a little  bit  skewed  in  the  sense  that,  well, that's  a  big  range  because  it  goes  from  25 to  whatever  depends  I, there's  a  physical  basis  of  base. There's,  the  amount  of power  that  you  get  from winches  grows  with  the  cube  of  the  speed. And  so  there's,  there's  sort  of, one  of  the  ways  that  pole  relates damages  to  wind  speed is  to  look  at  energy  dissipation, energy  suspicion  version  of  the  cube. So  you  can  see  even  before  it  gets  there, how  it's  on  circus extreme  cubic  grow  or  curve. It  does  show  like,  kind  of  that. A  little  bit  of  an  exponential  increase at  I  wish they  would  have  been  more  specific  than just  above  25  years  per  second, but  I  think  it's still  pretty  relevant  regardless. Thank  you.  Did  you  did  you  show? Okay. I'm  ready  to click  it's  it's  just  share  screen. So  actually  we  switch it  to  sharing  the  window rather  than  sharing  the  screen. Do  you  want  to  try?  If  you want  the  notes,  you  can  try. Thank  you  so  much.  He  starts with  the  strong  review  back  in  2006. The  next,  this  is  the  paper  from  2017. They're  starting  to  estimate  the  damages from  the  climate  changes on  different  sectors, specifically  for  the  states and  sizing  one  of  the  authors. First,  let's  recap  the  summary  of  the  paper. They  have  just  tried  to  develop a  frameworks  damages  from the  climate  changes  and  they  have done  this  especially  for  the  states. They  have  used based  economic  damages  estimate for  the  different  sectors in  the  inner  states, one  of  the  findings  is  that  for one  degree  cynic  increase,  their  GB, The  damages  on  the  GDP  due  to climate  change  is  about  1.2%  And the  one  next  one  sum  K  distribution of  the  group  or  among the  counties  of  the  United States  is  not  uniform. It  differs  among  the  counties and  one  of  the  last  is that  the  late  21st century  position  shows  that the  poorest  start  of  the  counties that  we  face  the  most  of  the  losses, it  will  rise  from  20%  of  the, under  the  high  mission  scenario, 8.5  So  one  of the  great  third  of the  papers  that  they  have  just, they  have  considered  about the  sector  specific  impacts. Like  which  different  sectors,  agriculture, energy  and  energy,  different  sectors. They  also  included  the  energy  system into  their  models,  integrated  system  models. They  also  did  consider  at  some  of the  biggest  climate  events  like the  Florida  into  their  models. What  comes  different  between this  and  the  previous  paper? Most  of  the  previous  paper  actually  are focused  on  the  U  emission  reduction  cost, against  some  of  the  benefits  in  some  of the  rough  estimates  and  some of  the  different  kind  of  models. But  most  of  the  previous  paper actually  ignored the  human  climate  lens  or  campaign. This  paper, extensive  use  of  the  damage  function, which  actually  comes  to  the  MST for  both  for  the  market  and the  low  market  cost  in the  United  States  economy. What  are  the  papers that  are  in  line  with  this  paper? I  just  have  some  of  the  broader  category. First,  Impact  Morning and  the  Economic  Assessment. Like  some  of  the  two  papers, they  just,  they  try to  calculate  the  economic  climate  changes. Then  some  of  the  papers  for  position, they  actually  try  to see  the  climate  change  position. I  think  this  is  for  the  saleable  wise, some  of  the  papers  like  for considering  the  discounting  factor, security  and  environmental  policy. Because  if  we  change  the  discounting  rate, it  will  change  the  social  cost. How  much  will  value  the  future. We  change  the  what some  of  them  studies  on  the  mortality  rate, on the  social  economic  factor  like  the  income. On  the  climate  change of  the  income  due  to  the  climate  changes. Some  of  the  contribution like  the  human  health. So  the  carry  manual  paper is  projecting  cyprossyeah.  Yeah. It's  something  to  climate  event. This  is  the  brief  summary  of  the  metrology. I  find  the  metrology involved  and  it's  very  hard to  express  in  less  amount of  time  to  understand  everything. Just  the  first  thing  that  they  have. Their  spatial  epical,  adapted  global  to local  assessment  system, class  integrated  system. I  think  this  is the  first  time  they  have  using the  real  time  dynamic  data  to calculate  the  damages due  to  the  climate  changes from  taking  the  data on  the  different  sectors. And  they  have  some  position position  at  county  level. I  think  previous  of the  papers  actually  detail for  regional  or  a  country  level. But  this  paper  actually  focuses  on  every  Cop in  the  United  States  and  the damage  calculation  for  every  county. And  they  have  some  specific  estimates. They  have  some  aggregation in  the  economic  impacts  coming  from all  of  the  sectors  into the  total  economic  mags for  the  whole  US  economy. The  population  economy  assumption like  we've  seen  in  the  loss  of  the  paper. What  would  change  if the  population  display  if, what  happens  if  the  recreation of  the  resources  will  happen? And  they  also,  one  of  the, I  think  they  have  kept, they  have  left  the  window  open  for  some  of the  appreciation  the  future  work  so  that they  can  fit  into  the  data,  into  the  model. And  they  come  up  with a  new  stimationoy  damages, stimation  for  new  economy. So  the  results  are  really  excellent. So  bear  with  me  for  some  minutes. Every  maps  is  a  model. There  are  total  number  of  for  models,  okay? And  the  curve,  this,  uh, okay,  I  see  the  most  here. I  just  forgot  the  name  of  the, see  the  equilibrium  curve  system, equip  client  system. So  we  can  see  that  most of  the  models  do  follow the  description  of,  of  the  line. So  the  damage  they have  calculated  the  damage  for 2080  to  the  end  of  the  century, like  2080  to  2099. If  we  can  see  how  things  changes in  agriculture  or  human  health or  in  some  of  the  energy, if  the  temperature  30,  these  sharp  reduction. And  if  you  can  see the  mortality,  every  daily  temperature, if  that's  goes  beyond  I  think  27, the  mortality  rate  or 100,000  is  increase  of  war. It's  interesting  to  find  the  crime  rate, it's  around  24,  23  crime  higher. To  captures  the  reduation like  that  in  war  world, There  should  be  stress  on  the  people, on  the  physical  stress,  and  there  should  be some  cyclical  effect  to probably  the  current  rate. This  is  interesting. The  annual  energy  consumption is  going  down  the, increasing  from  from  -15 to  15  degrees  centricate, but  is  a  lot  higher. After  15  or  16  degrees  centriate, higher  temperature  in  the  year, we  have  to  keep  cool  and  we  have to  spend  a  lot  of  cost for  the  cooling  system. These  are  the  sectoral  impacts. First  I  have  to tell  you  something  like  you  can  see some  of  the  definite difference  colors  like  the  sections, the  boundary  are  pretty  clear. But  in  some  of  the  top  panels, the  boundary  is  not  clear. It  means  that  if  the  boundary is  clear  among  the  regions, it  agrees  with  the  models  prediction. Because  we  can  see  some  of the  top  panels  don't have  a  distinct  boundary  among  the  regions. It  mostly  whether  not completely  agree  or disagrees  with  the  models  prediction. Let's  see  one  like  the  first  one, the  agriculture  age  agriculture  changes. If  we  can  go  from  green  to  red, green  means  it  will increase  the  agricultural  productivity, and  if  we  see  the  red, it  will  decrease  agricultural  productivity. So  we  can  see,  for  one  thing  short, on  the  South,  on the  northern  part  of  the  United  States, the  agriculture  seems  to  higher, I  think  went  to  college. This  part  actually  see  a  reaction  of the  patch  you're  talking  about,  the  Midwest. Midwest,  and  we  think  we  should  see, we  have  already  talked about  some  of  the  energy  expenditure. Let's  switch  it  from  the  coastal  damage. It  makes  some  sense. Yes,  we  would  find  the  coastal  damages  into the  coastal  couches  and  we  cannot see  anything  here  because these  are  not  cities. Next  we'll  see  if  we include  the  intensity  of  the  cycle. What  it  looks  like  without the  interstate  of  the  cycles. In  the  next  slide,  it  will  make some  changes  if  some  big  event  happens. Or  the  interstate  of  cycle, if  we  consider  there  is  a  lot of  more  cycles  to  be  hit  in  the  future, it  will  change  the  damage  calculation into  cities  like  property. I  think  the  last  one  is the  total  jury  damages  on all  the  counties  in summary  this  midwin  counties. The  damages  is  much  higher here  and  the  colder  region  in the  northern  part  is a  positive  damages  is  called  benefit. Okay.  So  the  paper does  one  of  the  remarkable  thing  about  that, they  just,  they  have three  kind  of  uncertainties. One  is  from  RP one  to  two  pi  six  for  these  green  doors. And  the  next  one  is  for  RP 4.5  and  these  are  for  the  stream  emissions. Smile  for  RCP  8.5 The  agriculture  is  almost  in  line with  our  previous  assumption  and previous  previous. So  just  what  we  have  just  to  say  about agricultural  work  is  almost  the same  with  the  high  emission  scenario. The  agriculture  is  in  the  mid, from  the  low  emission  from the  green  to  the  oper  is  okay. It's  going  down  but  the  moderate  speed. But  with  the  RCP  8.5 scenario,  it  drastically  drop. Just  reported  in  his  presentation  that almost  24%  of  the  GDP  is  coming from  the  agriculture  back  in  2006. It  will  make  a  huge  difference for  the  warmer  water  in  the  future. For  the  modality,  yes, it  goes  a  lot  higher, just  on  this  axis, they  have  just  reported  the  temperature of  2080  to  the  end  of  the  century relative  to  the  1980  to  2010. I  think  that  is  the  blow is  one  from  the  18219. If  any  temperature  for any  increase  of  the  temperature  comparing  to 1982  2020  average  temperature increased  to  eight  degrees  that  we  see mortality  around 6,000,000  increase the  It  60  deaths  per  100,000  Yeah, 60  deaths  per  100,000  Yes,  60. Previously  we  have  seen  the electricity  demand  will  increase, but  here  the  high  emissions  scenario that  we  did  a  lot of  energy  just  to  keep ourselves  during  the  time or  during  the  hot  summer  days. And  these  two  is  really  interesting. What  is  the  difference  between the  low  risk  flavor  and  high  lalla? If  someone  is  exposed  to  the  climate  change, even  like  he's  not  working outdoor,  he's  working  indoor. We  can  call  this  liver  as  the  low  risk  liver. Or  any  people  who is  working  into  the  field  like agriculture  with  high  high  temperature or  high  core  scenario, he's  exposed  to  the  climate  change  effect much  more  than  the  people who  is  working  inside. For  the  high  liver, the  change  is  really,  really  high. With  the  increase  of  the  temperature, people  will  face  a  lot, a  lot  hardship  in the  upcoming  warmer  future  to  walk into  the  outside  or  the  high  or  it  might. It  should  also,  if  people are  not  giving the  100%  productivity  into  the  labor, it  might  affect  their  productivity. It  comes  down  there should  be  less  contribution  to  the  GDP. And  the  world  may  experience  a  lot  of  changes due  to  the  high  exposure under  the  climate  change  scenario. Next,  go  to  the, so  this  two,  I guess  for  Florida  and  New  York. The  first  and  part. So  the  first,  this  up  to  this  part, this  two  actually  shows the  economic  damage  of the  coastal  coastal  counties, areas  without  considering  the  intensity, frequent  intensity  of  the  cyclones. Just  to  see  in  this  B  and  D  have included  the  intensity  of the  cyclone,  we  can  see  this. The  amount  of  damages  increases compared  to  the  cycle. If  climate  change  effect  in  the  future is  directly  increasing  the  number of  cycles  in  the  economy, it  will  definitely  damage at  least  the  coastal  economy  about  All  right. And  the  I  think  damages  of the  how  much  damages  is done  due  to  the  gross  product  of  the  states? There  are  four  states starting  from  Texas  to  Florida. Texas,  I  think  it's the  meat,  what  do  you  call  it? Texas  location  states,  it's kind  of  a  desserts. Not  dessert  but  dry. Psu.  Okay.  And  Florida  part,  the  plains. Florida  is  the  coastal  state, so  with  the  current  activity of  the  frequency  of  the  storms  and  cyclones, it  will  incur  it  will  incur  at least  0.2%  of  of  the  output  changes  in  Texas, but  which  is  much  higher  for  Florida, it's  around  2%  for  Florida. I  think  that the  other  just  three  different  models, the  last  model  is  the most  extreme  case  model, like  increasing  on  the  sea  level  rise. And  for  the  extreme  cases  for  Florida, it  will  see  at  least  4.5%  of  the  reduction  of the  state  cost  product if  we  changes  the  in  damages  in damages  versus  the  increase in  the  global  sea  level  rise. Most  of  the  observation  I  guess  is around  like  or  below  109. And  it  will  change, it  will  see  the  changes  of 0.12  0.2%  of  the  change  of the  gross  domestic  or  if the  global  sea  level  rises, like  if  you  see  like  200  centimeter, it  will  have  a  more  than  50%  changes of  our  B  damage. It  was  done  as  more  than  50%  damage  to the  state's  GB  0.5% 0.5%  As  temperatures  go, the  economic  damage  increases  significantly affecting  different  sectors  are  differently. First,  we'll  come  into  this  panel. These  are  the  counties range  to  the  rank  by  the  current  income. This  is  the  poorest  country and  the  richest  counties. Poor  counties  are experienced  the  maximum  number, percentage  of  damage  with  the  income. If  the  income  increases. For  the  counties,  the  band  is much  narrower  than  the  dispersion. Here  the  counties  has the  less  amount  of  output  for  the  economy. They  are  very  prone  to the  economic  damages  done from  the  climate  change. Damages  on  the  GDP, this  is  the  RCP  2.6 RCoint  five  RCP  E  five  high  emission scenario  under  RCP  8.58 degree  increase  of  the  baseline  temperature, 2098-2010  There  is  a  period  damage to  the  GDP  amount  like  in  person, 11%  economic  damage  will just  change  in  accordance with  the  county  incomes. What  the  paper  will  just try  have  just  told  that  they  will also  open  to  some  of the  future  real  Eta and  they  will  fit  into  their  models  to come  up  with  the  better  estimation of  the  economic  damages  for the  United  States  population  adoption. This  is The  amount  of  economic  damages  from the  climate  change  is  certain. But  how  people  will  adapt to  the  changes  in  the  climate  change? It  will  change  over  the  globe, also  over  the  counties  and the  special  location  of the  United  States  people. Population  movement  is very  possible  that  people might  react  differently  in accordance  with  the  climate events  into  the  future. It  is  possible  that  people  migrate  to  the, migrate  to  the  high  climate  disaster  area, to  the  less  area. Reallocation  of  the  resources, among  the  damage  or  among  the  people, potentially  affect  the  damage estimates  or  the  calibration, How  much  damage  is  doing  into  the  economy. If  we  do  the  regular  of  the  resources, there  is  a  point  that  it might  offset  the  economic  damages. But  no,  it  might  not significantly  offset  the  economic  damages. There  should  be  some  economic  damages due  to  climate  change  events. All  the  previous  papers  actually  done all  the  worst  regional  or  country  level using  the  country  level  data, but  this  is  a  micro micro  level  data  for  this  work. Us  GDP  estimate  between  12, 3%  really  under  8.5  by  the  century  end. And  most,  and  this  finding  is most  in  light  with  most  of the  papers  into  the  climate  change  economics. Okay,  so  the  broader understanding  of  the  papers,  yes, if  the  temperature  increases, it  will  damages  our  economy  and the  climate  damages  operating from  the  climate  change  is  not. We  cannot  just  say  that  this  will  be equally  distributed  around  the  globe. It  depends  on  the  socio  economic  and the  income  status  of  the  region, of  the  special  practices  of  the  region. And  yes,  disproportion damages  to  the  pool  counties. Poor  counties  tends  to be  trained  by  the  climate  change  event and  there  should  be some  rational  climate  management  to  be concerned  with  the  damages  that could  be  done  for  the, by  the  climate  changes. What  are  being  missed  in  the  paper? I  think  they  might  have  included the  water  productivity  scenario  into their  Guion  of  the  estimation  of the  estimation  of  the  climate  change  damages. And  I  think  Travis  also  mentioned  one  of the  biodiversity  loss  due to  the  climate  change, but  the  paper  actually  did  not  focus, did  not  do  or  consider the  eculion  biodiversity  of the  bios  Very  like  everything  is  connected. Like  if  we  change,  if  we  can, if  any  of  the  species  is  extinct  or due  to  the  climate  disaster, it  might  effect  all  the  other  stuff connected  with  it  in  the  food  chain, in  the  other  current  chain. So  this  could  have  be  included  or  they  might, they  might  have  some  plans to  include  this  into the  feature  works.  Thank  you.  Thank  you. All said that  the  inequality  thing  was, was  the  inequality  story  that  for  counties Mel  Prior  was  the  main  thing  that all  the  rest  picked  up on  the  ignored  also  app. I  was  kind  of  confused  about  the  US. Jack  Frees  map  of the  coastal  areas  that  you  talked  about. Don't  go  back  more,  maybe  yet. Does  it  say  that  there's  no  coast  damages in  California,  Oregon,  and  Washington? Yes.  I  don't  think  so. I  I  suspect  they  didn't  find  any  of the  climate  change  damages occurring  in  that  state. Yes,  it's  No,  no,  no,  no,  no. I  think  for  California  here,  right. Yeah.  Yeah.  It's  because  this is  a  model  of  purce  related  damages. So  it  accounts  for  so  damages are  hurricanes  but  only  in those  areas  that  are  come  Burke. Sky.  So  you  don't  have any  hurricanes  on  the  west  coast. And  then  I  was  surprised the  pat  looks  Texas  as  well. Looks  like  it's  a  pretty  big  change. Don't  know  that  area  as  Proburcane. Al.  Yeah,  no. Where  where  arts come  through.  Yeah. But  is  it  possible that  all  the  arts  heat  coming.  Yeah. This  come  up  through  the  Caribbean and  it's  really  interesting. Okay, awesome. Thank  you  both  for  doing so  much  of  my  job  for  me. So  I  have  some  stuff in  here  on  how  to  understand  facts. But  fortunately,  both  of those  papers  gave  pretty  good  overviews of  kinds  of  areas  that  we're  interested  in. So  let  me  can  tell  you a  little  bit  about  these  scenarios in  particular  because  talks  paper was  all  about  these  RCPs. Mostly  I've  been  talking  about  SSPs  and  these are  basically  the  same  thing, but  it's  going  to  be  important to  understand  both  because you  see  them  both  in  literature. There's  also  a  bits of  information  on  both  of  these, but  the SSP's  were originally  socioeconomic  scenarios. There  are  scenarios  of  how population  becomes  across  the  globe which  changed  the  picture. The  main  dimensions  upon which  they  are  laid  out  are  challenges, adaptation  and  challenges  to  mitigation. I'll  say  more  about  that  but the  page  have  a  different  story  line. Those  dimensions  do  not  entirely define  what  happens  with  the  scenarios, but  the  way  that the  scenarios  start  out and  additional  details  are  added. For  the  initial  versions  of  the  SSP's, there  was  no  connection  between SSPs  emission  scenarios, but  there's a  natural  connection  between  them. And  just  when  they  were  first  put  out, that  connection  hadn't  been  developed. The  way  that  we create  is  mostly  we use  energy  to  create  both. If  we  use  false  fuel  energy  to  create  both, that's  when  you  have  implications for  what  are climate  change  scenario  is  going  to  be. You  have  to,  if  you do  something  about  what  kind of  mitigation  challenges  there  are, that's  going  to  tell  you  a  lot  about  how much  the  energy  system has  been  transitioned  in each  of  these  scenarios. And  that's  going  to  tell  you  how much  two  is  in  the  atmosphere  as  a  result. And  across  the  SSPs are  usually  the  associated with  particular  RCPs. Cp's  are  the  slighted  scenarios and  the  weird  numbering  system  that's used  is  because  of  the  rates  for  developed. The  RCPs  are  labeled  by  the  radiative forcing  was  per  square associated  with  that  scenario. At  the  end  of  the  century, a  rate  of  forcing  in 2,100  of  2.6  watts  per  square  meter would  be  a  fairly  low  rate  of  forcing. It's  going  to  produce  temperatures that  are  around  two  degrees Celsius  radiated  forcing  A  in  century of  8.5  watts  per  square  meter. That  will  produce  temperature  changes around  four  degrees  Celsius. The  way  that  these  were  developed was  basically  that the  modeling  teams  were told  what  target  they  had  to  hit. They  said  create  a  world where  the  rate  of  force  in the  century  is  8.5  degrees. Then  different  modeling  teams  came  up with  energy  systems  that would  produce  those  end  results. There's  no  story  within  the  RCPs these  climate  scenarios  about  how  you get  to  that  did  force, so  it  had  to  be  sort  of  tacked  on  later  and that's  why  they  needed to  connect  these  to  SSP's. It  turns  out  that  one  of these  scenarios,  RCP,  okay, SSB  585,  which  corresponds  to  RCP 8.5  is  almost  impossible to  produce  in  the  energy  models. It's  almost  impossible  to  produce  it  because the  energy  models  assume  some  sort  of rationally  economic  behavior under  existing  technologies. There's  no  reason  why  we putting  enough  CO  two into  the  atmosphere  to  produce 8.5  watts  per  sermterdio. We  didn't  really  know  that  at  the  time. Also  prices  kee  now  people use  SSP  55  or  RCP  8.5  Very  much  stimulus. This  lower  level  of radio  for  actually  that  was, this  is  created  because  people  st  realized that  8.5  watts  per square  meter  is  probably  unrealistic. I  should  also  say, I  should  make  sure  that  they're  clear. Rcp  stands  for Representative  Concentration  Pathways. It  predated  the  SSPs, the  socionomic  pathways. And  you'll  still  see  some  research that  just  uses  the  time stan  part  of  the  SSP'sow. When  people  talk  about  the  SSPs, sometimes  they'll  say  SSP  one, that's  just  socionomic,  sometimes they'll  say  RSP  five's  just  time. Sometimes  they'll  say  SSP  126, that  means  the  combination  of SSP  one  with  RSP  twin  six. You  mentioned  a  few  points on  these  various  nerves. Like  I  said,  they  start  out  with this  space  of adaptation  and  mitigation  challenges, but  then  they  elaborate  the  story. P  one  is  about  sustainability  and  it has  sustainable  development  as  a  lot of  investments  in  reducing  inequality, as  well  as  tackling  climate  challenge. And  it's  certainly the  SSP  one  is  the  only  one  that's associated  with  those  low  levels of  radiative  forcing. You  have  SSP  126, you  have  SP  1.9  you don't  have  SSP  18.5  because  if you're  doing  sting  you  wouldn't  allow change  to  that  SB  two, middle  of  the  road  uneven  development. So  argus  and  reducing  vulnerabilities. Yeah,  it's  just  a  continuation of  existing  trends. Generally  people  assume  that the  current  commitments  that people  have  made  under  the  para  scrtins, assuming  that  large  cities  actually do  the  commitments  that they  think  that  they're  going  to  do, it's  it's  found  that  they would  follow  a  sort  of  SSP 24.5  SSB  2.5  S24  or  five  scenario. And  that  that  would  be  in  line with  no  changes  to  exist  in  transit. Are  there  are  other  ways  that  things  can  go south  and  so  all  three  of these  are  worst  scenarios. Sp  three  is  about regional  divergence  where  you have  a  lot  of  regional  conflicts, you  have  a  lot  of countries  closing  up  their  borders. Slow  economic  development  which runs  in  the  consumption, that  gets  even  worse  with  SSP  four, where  you  have  the  rich  having high  tech  and  protected economies  and  the  poor. Yeah,  continue  poverty. The,  the  main  difference  between these  is  about  whether  or not  you  can  succeed  at  mitigation. Whether  there  are  a  lot of  barriers  to  mitigation. S  four  has  the  low  challenges  mitigation where  three  has  high  challenges  mitigation. So  that's  why  SP  three  is  being useful  as  a  business  as usual  scenario  where  P  four  use  it. Ssp  four  is  associated  with RCP  6.0  which  is  another  RCP, it's  R  that  they  were  only  use SSP  five  is  the  burn  baby  burn  scenario, but  it  also  is  the  one  where  you get  the  most  wealth  pop. This  is  population  and  global  GDP. Under  these  two  scenarios, you  can  see  SP three  is  the  one  with  the  highest  population. You  don't  have  much of  a  leveling  off  of  population. That's  because  the  poor remain  so  poor  and  they  continue  to have  a  lot  we children  under  some  of  these  other  ones. Ssp  one  is  the one  where  there's  a  lot of  investment  in  women's  education, the  population  comes  down. Ssp  one  though,  is  not  the  richest. The  richest  one  is  SSB  five. And  that's  because  SSB  five, we're  basically  churning fossil  fuels  into  wealth  globally. But  did  you  see  this  connection between  SSP  three, between  the  super  high  population  and super  low  incomes  to  say,  okay, they  for  climate  change  site, this  like  I  said, the  way  these  were  built  was basically  by  choosing  the  endpoint  and then  letting  economic  models that  have  energy  systems  and specially  optimal  behavior  figure out  how  to,  how  to  get  there. The  way  that  they  basically  have  to do  this  is  they  have  to  say, okay,  if  you, if  you  want  to  hit  a  rat, forcing  you  already  know  a  lot about  the  total  income  levels and  population  in  your  society. Then  you  have  to  make  certain  assumptions about  the  carbon  intensity or  the  growth  technological  progress in  order  to  make  things  match  up. Or  if  your  model  is  very  sophisticated, you  have  to  make  assumptions about,  in  particular, which  kinds  of  technologies, which  kind  of  energy producing  technologies  are  mostly  appeal. You  look  more  optimized, that  optimize  assumptions. This  is  then  so  that the  dark  lines  rather the  thicker  lines  are  emissions  and, and  temperature  from  port  call. Marker  models,  the  marker  models are  sort  of  the, the  models  that  are  held  up  as the  standard  within  a  particular  scenario, not  for  any  particular  reason. Different  marker  models  are used  under  different  scenarios. I  think  it  was  meant  to  be  a  kind of  a  way  to distribute  the  fame  across  different  models. Different  modeling  teams  get  got to  sort  of  claim  one  of  the  Sceios. What  I  think  is  really  interesting  s  you could  see  SSP  five, the  marker  models  there As  with  lots  of  emissions, the  other  models  don't have  as  much  two  emissions, they  might  have  more  methane. It  turns  out  that  only  one  of  the  models that  was  considered  across this  modeling  exercise  couldn't  even  produce enough  emissions  to  get  us to  radio  forcement  of 8.5  watts  per  square  meter. So  these  are  actually probably  also  just  producing, let's  see,  W  in  the  atmosphere. For  some  of  the  other  ones  like SSP  one  though, these  models  are  all  hitting  the  right  mark. They're  all  getting  to  just 2.6  watts  per  square  meter, but  the  total  emissions. Are  really  different.  That  is particularly  true  as  you  get  later  in the  century  because  these  different  models are  going  to  have  different  assumptions about  some  heatings  like biofuels  and  carbon  capture. Sequestration  and  negative  associate with  sequestration, negative  emissions  such  that  you  can  get  to the  same  ends  to the  atmosphere  with fairly  different  kinds  of  technologies. When  we  talk  about  these  RCPs, you  could  actually  be  talking  about very  different  energy  system underneath  the  scenario, depending  on  which  model  you  use. Typically,  they're  most  useful  when you  are  doing  studies  of  climate  impacts. Because  with  climate  impacts  you  don't care  how  the  energy  was  produced. You  just  care  about what  happened  in  the  climates and  then  what  impacts are  associated  with  that. That's  where,  you  know, that's  what's  most  here. Questions  on  on  on  the  scenarios, are  we  talking  about  SSPs? Lot  was  talking  about  about  the  RCPs. She  probably  tried  those  together. A  little  other  I'm  going  to  I'm going  to  get  to  start  a  little  bit  on  the  f, on  the  fiscal  tax  stuff. Just  a  couple  things  to  think  about, a  couple  ways  that  this  is  understood. First, when  we're  talking  about  fiscal  impacts, we're  talking  about  changes  in the  biophysical  system  itself. Not  the  economic  outcomes that  we  associate  with  that, nor  necessarily  the  welfare connections  that  come  out  of  this. Let  me  make  that here  the  way  the  AECC thinks  about  physical  impacts. They  start  with  hazards. Hazards  are  changed  in  the  client  system. There  here  cyclone  could have  changes  in  temperature, something  like  that. Exposure  is  just  where  people  are. A  lot  of  the  results  from the  Stern  review  actually  we're  just combining  hazard  and  exposure saying  this  many  more  people are  going  to  be  exposed  to  the, the  following  hazard,  the following  what  people  are going  to  be  in  flood  para, that's  why  those  curves remain  changing  by  just  population  scenarios. But  in  order  to actually  understand  what's  going to  happen  to  different  regions, you  have  to  think  about  ability. What  is  there  to  be  exposed? Is  it,  for  example, infrastructure  that's going  to  be  particularly  prone to  falling  over  when  it's  hit  by  parking? Or  is  it  going  to  be  parking  resistant? All  three  of  these  are  needed to  understand  physical  impacts. There's  a  fourth  piece that  I'll  bring  in  next  week  on  economic, when  we  talk  about  economic  impacts. Which  is  basically  that even  if  you  have  these, even  if  you  know  the  vulnerability of  a  structure, even  if  you  know  whether  or  not  it's likely  to  fall  down  when  you  hit  by  a  hazard. You  don't  necessarily  know  what  kind of  a  loss  that  would  be  if it's  that  could  be  a  dot  loss. If  it's  a  poor  community that  just  remove  that  other  structure, it  could  be  a  very  significant  loss. It's  a  community  that's, those  are  three  simple  second  homes. We  will  stop  there because  everyone  said  that  they, so  they  want  to  do  the  positions and  so  the  pat,  the  Tens, I  don't  have  to  require  these anymore  to  be  put, but  I'm  going  to  keep  them out  and  I'm  going  to  try  to  remember  it  in, out  earlier  in  the  class. So  you  say, if  you  have  confusion  but  I  don't, I  haven't  anymore.  Something  good,  say.
