Is  it's, so  this  is  actually three  is  not  actually  going to  be  about  uncertainty. But  today's  the  finishing of  discussion  of  uncertainty. And  then  for  what's in  here  is  sort  of  a  collection  of two  things  that  I  want  to  bring  up. And  not  all  of  them  fit  very  nicely. I  have  a  vision  of  how  I  want  to  bring all  of  them  together and  we'll  see  if  it  works. The  first  thing  I  want  to  do  is  ask  you  guys to  put  your  preferences for  either  the  488  path  of  the  68  path. Then  we'll  finish  discussions  uncertainty. If  we  have  remaining  time, we  can  get  into  a  couple of  topics  that  I  have  some  material  on. And  then  on  Thursday, a  lot  of  the  time  is  actually  going  to  be  for a  first  couple  of  paper, presentations,  tucks, then  with whatever  typological  start  in  a  whole, which  is  the  first  step  to  economic,  okay. So  what  I'd  like  to  offer  or  think  about this  super  pads  is  that  you  could  have different  mixes  and  matches based  on  the  preferences. And  it  doesn't  really  matter  to  me  that much  for  participation,  the. Think  it's  a  little  bit  silly  for  me  to  keep attendance  for  grad  students. But  if  what  I was  going  to  do  for  the  undergrad  was, was  have  part  of the  grade  based  on  participation. So  there's  that  option  or the  paper  presentation  option for  this  participation  grade. The  labs  that  you've  seen  in  the  first  lab, that's  out  that  I  have  a  question. So  eight  are  either  some  more  exercises or  some  self  directed  stuff and  I'm  keeping  that  going. And  then  for  readings  there's either  text  chapters  or  a  papers. And  so  someone  would  say that  they  want  to  do  the  presentation, but  say  that  they  prefer  to stick  to  the  textbook  chapters  in  full. But  I  want  to  know  what  you  want. So  then  oh,  I  can  record question  how  many  of  you did  was  it  to Miller  reading  rather  than the  server  of  each  otero? Yeah,  we  did  the  two  papers. Yeah.  Yeah.  Yeah. So  all  you  did  the paper  rather  than  the  chapter, in  this  case  the  two  are actually  talking  about fairly  different  things. I  wasn't  quite  sure  what  to  do  about  that. But  the  fact  that  most  of  you  have read  the  And  chapter, that  makes  it  a  little  bit  easier. Just  check.  Yeah,  feel  Jeff  Feel  Antony, this  was  Jeff  Fuel  is  now  at  Columbia. Anthony  Moner  is  now  at  UC  Santa  Barbara. They  were  both  at  the  L  School  of  Economics for  a  time  and did  a  bunch  of  breaking  together. So  on  your  exit  tickets circle  which  of  each  of these  things  you  want  to  do  and  questions. Yeah,  yeah. And  tell  me  if  you  want  to  eat  your  mix. Ideally  you  would  stick with  whatever  mix  you  have. But  yeah. So  what  would  like  self  directed  table. So  for  example,  for  the  first  lab, those  last  two  questions  rather  they  are basically  for  the  48  path, it's,  here's  I  say here's  a  way  to  measure the  difference  between  models. Now  do  that  for  every  one  of the  different  climate  variables, and  then  producing results  for  the  self  directed. It's  come  up  with  your  own  way, two  different  ways  of measuring  the  difference  between  models, explaining  what  they're  measuring. Try  them  out  on  one  of  the  variables. Explain  why  they  give  different  answers. All  right,  so  sorry. So  last  time  we  were, we  just  broken  down  with  process  uncertainty. So  okay,  there's  uncertainty can  come  from  different  features. There's  model  uncertainty, gram  uncertainty,  past  uncertainty. Within  economics,  we  almost  always want  to  combine  or consider  it  arcuate  across  a  number of  different  aspects  of the  physical  or  this is  the  way  that  things  look. If  your  goal,  as  it  is  in  a  lot of  work  that  I  do  is to  understand  economic  damages, that  then  those  economic  damages first  are  going  to  depend  on the  policies  you  might  choose. I'll  mention  the  inadequacy of  Ping  policies  here, but  in  a  minute  you  could either  be  on  a  high  mitigation  pathway  or low  mitigation  pathway  and  depending  on those  you'll  end  up  with higher  or  lower  damages. And  Sci  typically  the  way  that we  manage  those  kinds of  policy  decisions  is  through  S, shared  pathways  which  combine information  about  what  the  clinics  going  to do  with  general  story  lines, about  what  the  social  economic  features of  the  world  are  the  mean. Question,  socioeconomically  going  out for  the  next  5,200  years, is  how  much  growth  is  sycopy? How  much  convergence  between poor  rich  countries  is. You  can  imagine  a  world  which  is a  burn  baby  bird  world  where we  don't  try  to  reduce  regions, conmissiontn,  lots  of  fossil  fuels, turn  it  all  into  wealth. Then  use  that. We  either  to  make  the  rich rich  and  the  poor  in  state, or  to  make  ever  rich. There's  a  serial,  which there's  only  one  for  that  burn, baby  burn  world  within normal  climate  economics. Let's  call  it  a  5585  And  under  SSP  585, the  idea  is  we  don't  do any  work  to  try  to  mitigate emissions,  so  there  are  lots  of  emissions. But  there's  a  lot  of  money  to  go  around because  there's  a  lot  of  money  go  around. Everyone  becomes  rich. Because  everyone  becomes  rich, they  have  a  lot  of  capacity for  burning  fossil  fuels. It,  it's  a  positive  feedback  loop where  people  just  become richer  and  more  mild, but  on  the  high  mitigation  side of  the  world.  All  right? I  feel  like  I  haven't  giving  you guys  the  full  matrix of  SSPs  and  I  should  do  that. But  for  now  I'm  going  to keep  just  talking  about  a  couple  of individual  ones  and  we map  later  on  under  the  high  mitigation  rules. One  of  the  ones  that  we've  seen  before  is SP  SP  126.  Let  me  break  that  down. Ssp  one  is  there's a  social  purp  which  is  one  and  a  clip, which  is  the  26  part. This  is  P.  One  part says  we're the  word  of  sustainable  development. We're  going  to  help everyone  come  out  of  poverty. We're  going  to  do  that  in  a  greening  way. We're  going  to  coordinated  global  fashion, push  toward  high  mediation. The  2.6  part  of  it  talks about  the  end  Simon  emissions. What  it  tells  you  about  is that  as  a  result  of  all  that's  stuff, you're  going  to  end  up  with  a  world that  is  fairly  cool probably  in  around  two  degrees  form by  these  two  go  together, just  like  the  bird  burn, SSP  585  go  together  where  socio drives  emission  strives more  wealth  and  socios, the  SSP  126  goes  together. More  global  coordination drives  more  potential  for emissions  reductions  which drives  more  quality, which  drives  or  formation with  these  different  story  lines. And  end  up  with  different policies  as  a  result of  different  policy  decisions  you associate  with  those  policy  decisions  are different  socio  economics  in  particular. There  are  multiple  different  models  that will  predict  what  kinds  of social  economics  you'll  get  under a  given  policy  scenario. These  models  out  there  called  process  based, items  based,  integrated  as  system  models. Then  once  you  know something  about  stomachs  and  policy, you  can  also  say  something about  what  the  climate  is going  to  look  like  these  two. They  don't  have  to  be  one  after  order. You  have  to  know  something  about  the  shocks. Later  on  the  policy  will  see  something about  climate  for  that  average  models. Again, those  models  are  global  climate  models. Global  climate  models  are amazing  for  being  able to  project  the  future  of  large, so  low  hours  this  in  the  future. But  they  aren't  necessarily  very  good  for doing  some  of  this  economic damages  stuff  on  their  own. The  problem  being  that global  pilot  models  describe  things  at a  fairly  coarse  resolution  when  it  comes to  C communities  economic  features  of  the  world. A  typical  grid  cell  for a  global  put  model is  100  kilometers  on  the  side, 60  miles  on  the  side, 40  miles  on  the  side, 2.2  kilometers  to  mile  is  that  58. Something  like  60  miles  side. That's  a  huge  area. In  order  to  say  something  interesting about  the  social  economics  that are  associated  with  that, you  usually  have  to  take that  information  model  and refine  it  to  a  higher  resolution. It's  called  down. We  don't  have  to  discuss the  details  of  how  you're  doing  that, but  there  are  people  who  have  put models  that  attached  to  the  GCM  process C  that  to  get the  high  resolution  weather data  results  that  goes, we  take  that  weather  information and  you  can  get  out  of  physical  imparts, which  will  be  starting  on  Thursday, things  like  how  much less  productive  is  agriculture  going  to be  or  how  much more  likely  are  certain  forms of  disease  or  mortality  going  to  be. Then  you  have  to  change those  into  economic  damages. Economic  damages  are  how  we value  those  changes  that are  happening  in  the  world in  terms  of  some  of those  like  agricultural  losses. We  have  prices  in  the  world  that  tells  us how  globally people  value  agricultural  products. But  we're  talking  about  the  for  future. Who  knows  how those  prices  are  going  to  change some  economic  assumptions  or models  to  do  this  transition from  Phs,  damages,  technomicages, other  cases,  for  example, when  you  want  to  go  from  deaths, additional  deaths  caused  by  climate  change, to  the  social  value  of  those  deaths. You  have  to  do  the  eco,  putting a  value  on  a  person's  site. You  do  that  there  are  different  ways, but  the  standard  approach  is called  the  Value  of  Statistical  Life,  BSL. Bsl  is  $1  value  assigned to  each  life  or  death  that  you  have. The  Mat  Protection  Agency defines  a  BSL  for  the  whole  US, and  it's  $8.1  million. So  if  there's  a  policy  that's going  to  produce  ten  deaths, then  when  you  cosmetic  analysis, you  add  on  to the  cost  of  that  policy,  get  extra  $80. Million. Time  change,  we're  talking about  much  larger  numbers  of deaths  for  something  like  climate, climate  driven  mortality,  economic  damages, mortality  can  be  really  big. Those  Ltments  come  from  statistical  work  to understand  how  people  respond to  small  changes  in  the  risk  of  their. For  example,  neat  belts  are  standard  cars, but  there's  a  time  when  you could  to  get  spots  in  your  car. That's  a  trade  off  that  are  choosing  to  do. They're  choosing  to  reduce  the  chance  of death  by  choosing  to  pay  more  for  their  car. That  tells  you  something  about  how  they individually  value  their  lives. And  then  you  can  strat  say, well  what  if  the  choice that  they  were  making  was  not  I  want to  increase  or  decrease my  risk  of  death  by  1%  or  whatever, but  going  from  0%  E to  100%  just  a  scaling  of  those  Cs, the  number  that  you  get  from  a  small  change, that's  a  statistical  result. That  means  that  that  result comes  with  a  bunch  of  uncertainties. Uncertainties  comes  with  uncerti, there  a  different  ways  of  estimating  this, like  different  experiments  that  are  done, different  pieces  of  evidence. Ph  the  EPA, the  US  Environmental  Protection  Agency. When  the  Environmental  protection Agency  comes  out  with its  estimate  of the  value  of  statistical  light, they  try  to  do  a  analysis. They  try  to  synthesize all  the  available  evidence  that  come out  with  a  given  number. But  that's,  that's  more  of  a  policy  decision, not  necessarily  a  representation  of the  underlying  values  that  hold  of, we're  thinking  about  economic  damages. We  want  to  get  to  the real  underlying  welfare  gain or  loss  from something  that's  going  to mean  that  we're  going  to  have  to account  for  the  cert. One  other  form  of  sert  is I've  been  telling  you about  what  the  EPA  does. Well,  how  does  that  differ  across  countries? In  general,  we  find  that  in  poor  countries, people  are  less  willing  to spend  money  to  reduce  the  ice  of  death. And  there's  an  ethical  question  there. Does  that  mean  that  we  should  be  applying a  lower  Cyscal  life  in  poor  countries  is essentially  the  lives  of the  people  in  por  countries less  because  they  themselves choose  that  monetary  trade  off, instoy  that  they  value  their  lives  less. Or  does  the  Cisco  life  should  depend  on the  person  who's  trying  to  do the  analysis  and whatever  value  they  come  up  with, they  shouldply  that  universally  across  the W.  This  is  one  of  many, many  ethical  questions  that  ends up  coming  up  invariably  in  discussions  of, of  climate  change  is  what other  is  about  the  two  different  papers. What  I  want  to  talk  to  you  is  much  more comfortably  around  the  heel  of  Millner  paper, the  Stern  Review  chapter. That  was  also  state,  for  those  of  you  who, who  want  to  read  it  was actually  more  about  ethics  stuff. And  these  two  are  connected. Yet  I'm  going  to  be  mostly talking  about  ethics  stuff  in a  different  cut,  queuing  it  up. But  just  then,  I  have  here this  feedback  because actually  economic  damages, particularly  if  economic  damages means  loss  of  GDP, that  could  feed  back  into the  socionomic  demic  matter for  something  like  Tutt. Well,  if  you're  richer  you  might  be  more  able to  afford  the  kinds of  adaptations  that  are  going  to  reduce  your, your  risk  of  losing  your  life. Or  if  we're  using  an  income  based  BSL. If  you're  richer  then  your  life  is going  to  value,  is  to  be  valued  more. Economic  damages  can  go and  affect  your  socionomic, can  make  you  rich  or  poor, affect  your  changes  in social  can  change  your  physical  damages, people's  responses  to  physical  damages. That  is,  as  they  start  to  experience, for  example,  loss  of agriculture,  agriculture  yield. They  could  choose  to  make changes  to  where  they are,  what  weather  they  experience. They  can  be  changes  in  the  market, how  much  the  agriculture  products  are  valued. All  of  these  can  actually  then  also affect  policy  decisions  being  made. A  really  neat  paper  by  one of  the  people  collaborate  with  names  Frandre, on  understanding  the  political  economy of  this  whole  process  and  the  way  that expected  experienced  impacts  drive political  challenges  that  cause people  to  show  in  different  pathways. That's  the  way  the  work  together. Here's  the  way  that  it  would actually  look  in  practice. This  is  a  slightly  different  basic  scenario. Okay,  So  here  are two  different  policy  scenarios and  I'm  taking  them  all  the way  through  to  change in  welfare  loss  driven by  change  in  death  rates. The  two  policy  scenarios  are, one  is  the  one  that  I  told  you  about  SSP  16, that's the  sustainable  development  policy  scenario. Sp  370  is  a  world  of  inequality. It's  not  quite  the  burn, baby  burn  world  where everyone  becomes  richer. It's,  it's  a  world  where  the  rich  become richer  by  ignoring  the  plate  of  four  groups. And  part  of  ignoring  that  plate  is  that they  just  ignore  dip  change  and they  basically  Googles other  cities  ultimately. And  so  there's,  this  is  a  world  where the  total  average  wealth  doesn't  do  that. Well,  actually  show  that  here, but  the  total  control  doesn't  do  that  well. But  the  wealth  of dgetriesly  well  for  Patrice  is  really  out. So  you  can  see  here, there's,  these  are  actually  histrams. There  are  a  couple  of  different  models  that have  modeled  each  of  these  scenarios. For  the  most  part  there so  closely  that  it  doesn't, there's  not  much  to  say  about. But  you  can  see  that  there's a  litleation  even  at  level  population, population  is  one  of  the  best, most  easily  predictable  socio  features. So  the  fact  that  one  set  of  models, two  of  the  three  models  are predicting  a  goal  population, so  is  higher  one  is  Pity's. Then  conditional on  those  different  global  populations, we  have  surface  air  temperature  change, MST  changed  by  the  end  of  the  century, and  a  distribution  around that  is  the  distribution  around  that. Ultimately,  it's  because  of the  equilibrium  climate  sensitivity that  we're  talking  about  last  time. Practically,  there are  lots  of  different  GCMs, and  each  GCM  is a  different  final  temp at  the  end  of  the  century, uh,  even  conditional  on  the  emissions. So  the  emissions,  the  Sari, tell  me  exactly  what  the  emissions  are, but  the  models  are  t slightly  difference  and  results. So  under  your  high  mitigation  scenario, looks  like  this  actually  treated  50, this  is  not  to  two  degrees. You'd  see  that  the  high  mitigation  world is  only  about  1.75  degrees. The  low  mitigation  world  is, it's  already  up  to  three  degrees. Then  we  go  through  the  to  tell  scale. So  why  would  it be  that  the  distribution  of  deli, temperatures  is  more  certain  than the  distribution  of  co  tempatures, resolution  of  the  models. Okay,  but  why  does that  say  more?  What  does  that  do? Like  so  if  you're talking  specifically  about  deli, then  your  model  would  have  to have  resolution  down  to  the  city De  versus  the  general  model doesn't  have  like  it's  one. So  to  your  point to  the  reason  why  we have  to  have  down  speeding  to  go, which  is,  which  is actually  part  of  the  issue  here. There's  a,  there's  a  more  general  point that  I  want  to  make  as  well, which  is  about  what  we  know  about  what happens  in  point versus  what  we  know  what  happens. Cold,  Just  like  taking  a  glance  at  it. Like  climate  versus  weather, I  don't  know  if  you  were  talking  about like  the  volatility  of  weather versus  taking  all  those  data  points and  putting  it  into a  more  average  climate  check. So  this  connected  to this  is  this  is  a  temporal  page  as  well. Okay?  And  so  it's  a, this  is  as  per year  ten  see  the  climate  if  that's  one  level. So  if  you're  sitting from  the  level  to  some  of  the, so  I  think  the  ser,  but  what  does  it  do? Most  of  the  models, like  predict  the  changes into  some  of  the  bigger  retinal. Like  if  we  come  to the  specific  country  CT  or  just  point. Yeah,  that  within  each of  these  course  cells you  have  a  lot  of  variation. You  have  some  places  that  are, there  are  places  that  are, there's  a  lot  of  spatial  variation. And  then  the  different  models, including  different  down  scaling  models, are  going  to  have  different and  uncertain  information  about  how  much hotter  are  on  a  year  by  year  basis. How  much  individual  years are  going  to  be  hot. Others,  Correct. And  then  we  just  magic, we'll  talk  about  that  magic  in next  week  to  translate  that into  changes  in  the  death  rate. Deaths  per  hundred  thousand  by  the  way, within  public  health, for  some  reason  they report  deaths  in  terms  of  deaths  per 100,001  Thing  that's  interesting is  as  in  Delhi, the  under  a  high  mitigation  scenario, you  have  a  lot  of this  distribution  as  having negative  changes  in  ph, minor  increases  in  warming according  to  all  the assumptions  that  go  into  this. And  yet  saving  lives. Whereas  with  your  Sp 370  high  emission  scenario, you  have  this  white  district. A  lot  of  uncertain,  much wider  than  the  temperature  distribution, although  it's  not  totally  clear  is  positive. You  expected  more  deaths. The  potential  for Potential  for  some  in  says  a  potential for  huge  numbers  of  debts. And  then  we  do  the  next  step, but  we  end  up  with  distributions  that  are far  from  meaningless  but almost  ridiculously  uncertain,  right? We're  saying  that  under either  of  these  scenarios, you  can  end  up  with  changes  in  welfare  loss. I'm  talking  about  how  they  go  from  debts  to welfare  loss  more  later, but  change  welfare  loss  as in  terms  of  the  equivalent  loss, GP,  going  from  an  increase  in  GDP, increase  in  wealth  of  5%  or  more, and  a  decrease  in  GB  of  5%  or  less, decrease  in  GB  central  or  more. There  he  certainties  for  these, that's  just  a  fact  of  a  lot  of  this  work. Here's  where  I'm  going  to deviate  a  little  bit  from  slides. This  is  a  perfect  moment  to talk  about  Whitman's  dismal  there. Has  anyone  heard  of's  dismal  there? A  lot  of  times,  almost  across  the  board. Whenever  we  want  to  translate  things  from monetary  loss  to  welfare  loss, we  want  to  take  into  account how,  which  someone  is. And  the  way  that  we  do  that  is  with some  sort  of  utility function  or  welfare  function. We'll  talk  a  little  bit  more  about this  utility,  welfare  functions  later. But  I'm  just  the  welfare  function  and I'm  going  to  say  that on  my  consumption  level, which  is  my  L.  So  the  way  that  draw this  is  as  a Concentra  risk  aversion  utility  function. Don't  worry  about  the  details, the  mathematical  details  of  that, but  here  are  the  relevant  pieces  of  that. If  you  are  poor,  this  is, this  is  your  income  consumption and  here  is  poor. Such  if  you're  poor  and  you  have the  prospect  of  either  moderate  increase or  decrease  in  your  wealth, that's  going  to  mean  a  lot. That's  going  to  increase  utility or  decreased  utility. If  you're  rich  and  you have  an  increase  or  decrease  in  wealth, that's  going  to  mean  that  much. To  the  intuition  here is  the  same  as  when  people  say that  the  benefit  of higher  incomes  levels  out after  about  used  to  be  40,000  years. Never  think  it's  60,000  year after  about  $60,000  a  year. Once  you  are  making  about  $60,000  a  year, making  more  money  doesn't actually  make  you  happy. This  is  why  they're one  of  the  happiest  places  in the  world  is  Costa  Rica. Even  though  Costa  Rica  is  like a  quarter  as  wealth  in  terms  of, of  income  as  the  US. Just  not  nearly  as  much  of a  benefit  or  loss  from  rich  versus  A. Now  I, I  set  out  these  economic  damages and  said  that  there  were, there's  potential  for huge  increases  or  decreases. So  it  does  actually matter  where  you  are  on  this. I'm  going  to,  I'm  going  to consider  some  of  these  poor people  because  it's  going  to, let  me  make  the  arguments  more  easily. If  you  and  you end  up  with  a  5%  loss of  GDP,  that's  going  to  be  bad. That's  going  to  be,  it's  going  to be  batch  the  tuna of  more  than  5%  loss of  your  welfare  is  that  argument. But  what  happens  if you  end  up  with  nearly  100  symbols? Objection. This  curve. Down  down  50. Because  the  value  of  different  increases, benefits  or  loss  increases. Decreases  in  your  consumption  are  relative. If  you're  a  rich  person, then  you're  getting  a  little  more  money or  less  money  is  going  to  have a  small  effect  if  you  person, bigger  effect  if  you're  even  per  person. Let's  say  you're  making  $1  a  day, then  losing  $1  a  day  is  going  to  be, if  you're  making  $0.01  today, then  $0.01  today  is  what  you  mean. Even  more  to  the  losing  $1  day  was  mentioned, the  pursuits  in  the  dollar. And  so  as  you  get  to poor  and  poor  levels  on,  on  this  question, the  effect  of  an  additional, say,  dollar  loss  is going  to  just  keep  getting  warm  moisture. Now  we  were  talking about  specifically  this  curve  last  time. We  were  talking  about our  equal  in  cm  city  curve  which it  points  out  was  one  tailed  and still  had  significant  significance, probability  mass  way  out to  like  nine  degrees. The  effect  of  the  climate  problem  is that  even  under moderate  changes  in  the  level, so  in  the  atmosphere, you  can  end  up  with  some  small  probability of  extreme  temperature  changes. Extreme  temperature  change  is  going  to  result in  extreme  loss  in  income. Loss  of  income  is  going  to  be  the  people that  loss  in  income will  be  essentially  infinite  loss  in  welfare. Let's  say  that  there's  just one  person  who's  poor enough  in  world  that the  loss  in  welfare is  going  to  be  so  bad  that the  individual  utilities  good negates  it  mean  for someone's  utility,  negative  infinity. It's  a  little  bit of  a  mathematical  construct, but  basically  it  is  the  same  as  that  person. Let's  say  that  you end  up  with  the  chance  that one  person  is  going  to  die  from  change. If  you  take  the, if  you  sort  of  take  a  weighted  average  of everyone  in  the  country that  the  person  lives  in, the  weighted  average  is  also  going  to  be negative  or  debt  scenario. Similarly  for  the  globe, the  weighted  average  of  the globes  is  going  to  be  Nf. Now  imagine  that  you have  two  policy  scenarios, one  in  which  dies nego  finity  and  one in  which  someone  diesgoegofiity. There's  no  tradeoff  that  you  would make,  say  this  properly. There's  nothing  that  you  would  not  be  willing to  give  up  to  move  from  the  probability, the  possibility  of  that  bad scenario  to  the  good  scenario. You  will  do  everything  to  get  to the  good  scenario  because  the  alternative is  global  average  welfare  of  infinity. Says  that  basically  under the  kind  of  to uncertainty  that  the  ECS  gives  us, there's  not  any  choice we're  talking  about  anymore. Because  you're  always  going  to  end up  with  these  extreme  scenarios. Like  when  I  was  doing  the  coding, where  I  drew  red  and draws  distribution  and  then transformed  it  into  a  To  distribution. We  end  up  with  DCS  values, some  temperature  values  from  a  suit  in the  range  of  1,500  degrees  C  increase. If  that's  within the  probability  distribution, then  we  have  to  do  everything  to solve  ourselves  from  feting  there. It's  a  dismal  theorem, mainly  because  it  throws out  any  useful  economics. There's  no  useful  calculations  you  can  do when  one  side  of the  calculations  always  comes  out. I'm  going  to  talk  more  about,  about these  utility  curves, more  with  the  cold  weather  service. But  there  are  questions  about  does that  negative,  negative  8  million, well,  you  can,  so some  people  do  that  basically  you can  clip  the  curve  so  that  you  say, you  know,  at  certain  points you  can't  get  any  worse  off. But  what  happens  then  if, let's  say  there's  a, there's  a  point  on  this  curve where  you  get  to that  negative  8  million  point. What  do  you  do  with  people  who already  alight  and  sitting  on  that  point? Basically,  you  are saying,  I'm  going  to  ignore  those  people. I'm  not  going  to  be  counting  the  beat  of house  because  you've  already said  that  their  utility  can't  go  any  lower. One  alternative,  which  is, that  is  basically  to linearize  at  a  certain  point  where you  say  whatever  you, those  very  poor  people, they're  going  to  act, respond  to  increases  or  decreases in  well  the  same  way  that  somewhat  richer, richer  person  would  have  responded. And  usually  where  you  have  to  put these  limits  is something  like  $1  a  day. Because  where  the  red  of utility  curves  that  we  use  the  work fine  when  you're  dealing  with  is  non, non  random  numbers  across  the  globe. They  already  go  crazy  like  $1  a  day  terms and  there  are  tons  of  people  who live  at  $1  a  day's. Good  question.  I  feel  like  once  you're  broke, like  you're  broke,  like  there's  not like  negative  futility,  right? Like  I'm  homeless.  I  don't  have and  I  like  was  that  still  broke  homeless. But  this,  we're, we're  translating  everything  into  sense, into  dollar  terms  because  it's, it's  useful  for  being  tradeoffs, but  we're actually  typing  everything  into  that. So  it's  things  like,  you  know, how  much  more  pleasant  is  to  be  outdoors when  you're  anywhere  along  the  spectrum. And  if  you're  homeless, it's  even  more  pleasant. It's  not  necessarily  that they're  losing  real  money, but  that  they're  losing an  amount  of  welfare  utility equivalent  to  almost  money. Yeah,  I  guess  what  I'm  saying is  like  the  way  I  would  imagine it  is  like  at  some  point it's  like  it's  like  this. Yeah,  that  makes  sense. It's  setting  aterian  that, that  is  basically  saying  those  people don't  factor  into  calculations. Whatever  we  do  because they're  so  poor  that  it  isn't, you  know, losing,  losing  a  little  bit  of  money  or, or,  or  dealing  with  money  is going  to  affect  them. We're  not  going  to  consider the  policy  decisions  because your  policy  doesn't  make  a  difference. Okay?  And  I  have  a  different  question. Yeah.  So  let's  say  you  were deciding  between  two  policies, but  then  in  both  policies  someone  ends up  dying,  like  how  do  you? Yeah,  So  then  you're just  comparing  negative  '50s. Ridiculous,  to  be  clear,  happen. This  is  not  a  theoretical  problem. This  happens  all  the  time  when  you're  doing certain  kinds  of  clinic change  calculations  nowadays. Which  is  to  say  when a  lot  of  this  was  set  up  theoretically, and  even  when  Whitman  was  doing his  work,  think  about  this  problem. We  most  of  the  kind of  losses  that  we  thought  change  was going  to  produce  the  assets  line  enough that  people  didn't  run into  this  when  actually doing  cations  so  much. Fairly  recently  I  was  doing completion  of  what's  called the  Social  Cost  equipment. Social  Cost  Carbon  is  basically, is  basically  the  equivalent  of bioclite  each  carbon. How  much  is  the  total  loss that  given  to  carbon  in  the  atmosphere? How  much  losses  that  produce  for  Depending  on what  assumptions  I  make about  the  minimum  value, how  to  consider,  I can  get  social  cost  carbons  that  go up  to  a  number  carbons  like  100  to  Mischler. Um,  it's  easy  to  cover  up  with  numbers  at the  film  that  are  set  $8  trillion. That's  just  the  way  that  the  math  works. And  therefore,  not  because of  the  wrong  reasons, not  because  we  didn't make  reasonable  assumptions, but  because  even  under reasonable  assumptions  you  having to  put  some  limits on  your  reasonable assumptions  ability  is  examples. So  a  lot  of  the  way  that  people  in this  field  think  of  uncertainty and  the  way  that  we'll  be  using  it in  labs  is  as  low  simulations. So  you  already  know  what  simulations  are. Just  simulations  are  when you  run  a  model  many, many  different  times  with different  values  of  the  parameters within  the  range  of  uncertainty. This  is  explaining  the  way  that,  that  looks. For  example,  different  cycles  of  hurricanes. There's  a  lot  of uncertainty  that  we  have  about the  particular  distribution  of  temp, sea  surface  centures  and humidities  across  the  ocean,  wind  speeds. And  one  of  each  of  those  sets  of assumptions  will  give  you a  different  for  some  hurricane. When  you're  doing  things  with Carlo  simulation, you  basically  take  a  set  of  uncertain  Cs, turn  them  into  certain, have  particular  values  for every  single  thing  in  particular  ensemble. In  simulation  you  could have  universe  where  rain is  slightly  more  likely, in  some  areas  with  the  S, slightly  lower  pressure  levels are  grimly  tweaked. And  so  typically  the  way that  we,  for  example, deal  with  uncertainty  from the  CS  is  that  we'll  take different  draws  of  the  ECS, will  say,  okay,  in  this  model we're  assuming  the  CS  is the  value  and  this  motel  CS  is  the  value. And  this  model  CS  is  a  value  of 12,722  This  is  the  description. So  a  lot  of  the  techniques, so  I'll  show  you,  want  to  explain  to  you how  we've  been  operationalized with  Mont  Carlo. This  to  the  first  pop, I  want  to  show  you  some  information  maps  of how  much  different  things contribute  to  the  total  uncertainty  that we  have  about  present  or  future  plans. In  order  to  tell  you  that,  I  need to  explain  to  you  how  you  would  go about  decomposing  Serge's  weird  concept. What  do  you  mean  by  decomposing? Surg  is  we  have  for  example, let  me  skip  down  to  this  part  of  it  here. Let's  suppose  that  we  have a  bunch  of  different  Carlo  runs, different  runs  of  a  model  that produce  different  temperature  levels for  the  global  climate. You  could  imagine  that there  are  a  bunch of  different  parameters  that produce  those  different  estimates of  the  global  climate, clintological  tempature. But  two  things  that  probably are  first  order  things  are  really  important are  the  total  amount  of  missions  and  the  ECS. And  it  would  be  useful  to  know,  for  example, to  what  extent  does  that  range  of temperatures  is  driven  by uncertainty  in  the  amount of  emissions  you  have, or  is  it  driven  by the  uncertainty  in  the  amount of  its  equilibrium  clip. I  can  imagine  with all  the  discussion  about  how uncertain  the  ECS  is  actually, emissions  don't  matter,  and all  the  uncertainty  that  we  see  in final  tempatures is  actually  all  coming  from  CS. Useful  question  to  ask, a  question  that  you  could  have a  research  hypothesis  about. How  would  you  go about  evaluating  that  hypothesis? You  can  do  watch  with  lots  of, lots  of  different  sets  of  values. Some  have  higher  lower  emissions, some  higher  ECS  values. And  then  calculate  a  bunch  of  these  things. You  can  say,  okay,  what  is the  total  variance  of  the  fiber  tempature? Can  also  limit  myself  down  to just  those  Lo  simulations where  the  emissions  level  was  at  say, six  tons  of  carbonara. It's  a  subset  of  one  too  estimates. And  it  produces  a  subset of  the  temperature  values. And  then  it's  going  to  have  a  different variance  if  ECS  four. All  that  matters  then limiting  my  emissions  emissions only  those  talos  with  an  emission  rate  of  six won't  have  any  effect on  the  variants  that  I  get  out. I'll  be  taking  some  but  not  others, but  it'll  be  the  same  distribution, temperatures  plausible. We  can  also  do  the  same  thing  with  ECS, so  we  can  say  what's  the  variance of  temperatures  after  I've only  taken  those  much  model  runs where  the  ECS  is  three  degrees  Celsius. And  if  it  turned out  that  actually  everything  was being  driven  by  the  emissions  rate, by  the  CS  at  all,  then  they're, that's  going  to  have  the  same  variance  as  to, if  we  assume  that these  are  literally  related. It's  a  huge  assumption,  but it's  the  only  one  where  the  math  works  out. Then  it  turns  out  that  the  total  variance of  temperatures  is  equal to  basically  a  component. Multiply  the  variance  for  emissions, variance  for  ECS  and equal  variance.  Pull  this  out. The  variance  of  the  variance driven  by  emissions. See  this,  the  variance of  tempture  that  is driven  by  emissions  is  going  to  be  equal  to, I  want  to  say  two  different  things  here and  I  have  to  break  up  in  two  pieces. Variance  of  emissions,  This is  not  the  variance  of  temperature  emissions. I'm  going  to  tell  you  that it  turns  out  that  it's  the  coach, but  this  is  actually  the  variance  in the  different  emissions  values. So  you're  going  to  end  up  with some  emission  values  of six  patients  from  year  54. A  bunch  of  different  values  for  emissions. You  can  take  the  variance  of  that. That's  actually  what  is  in this  equation  that  explains the  total  variance  as the  sum  of  the set  total  variance  of  temperature, assuming  that  everything  as display  is  equal  to the  variance  of  emissions  plus the  variance  of  CS  times  some. Now  it  turns  out  a  more  math. The  variance  of  beta  squared  times  variance of  emissions  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  variance  of  temperature when  you  lock  down  the  S, the  variance  over  all  ECS  times  the  sasquat. That  term  is  going  to  be equal  to  the  variance  temperature  when  you lock  down  emissions  is all  this  pieces  interaction term  which  is  the, the  existence  of  people  who do  this  kind  of  cost. What  it  tells  you  is  that  you  can  talk  about the  total  variance  in  terms of  the  percentage  that  comes from  each  of  these  three  elements. Usually  this  one  is  actually  ignored. And  can  you  talk  about,  okay, what's  the  part  that  feed  Y  emissions? That's  this  one.  What's  part  of  the  feed  ECS? That's  one  you  can find  out  what  percentage  is  each  one. Get  to  this  since  it  wasn't  in the  one  of  the  pictures  that  we  really  care. So  this  is  a  exercise that  used  that  math  and there  are  a  bunch of  different  interesting  questions you  could  ask  using  this  kind  of  math. But  let  me  tell  you  what  you  get  for. One  of  the  key  questions  you  brought to  ask  over  here is  a  model  where it  was  assumed  that the  total  variance  in  tempature, global  decadal  meet,  surfer tempture  consists  of  three  terms. Model  cert,  Scar, certain  internal  variability  Model  Cert was  calculated  by  pulls. Those  Los  were  different,  GC's. The  question  was,  well, how  much  do  GCMs  disagree? And  that's  why  we have  so  much  uncertainty  about  school. The  final  tempt  at  some  point  in the  future  scenario  uncertainty  is  okay. We've  got  a  bunch  of different  scenarios  like  those, SSP  163-70-3805  How  much is  the  temucentryctay  about? That  depends  upon  which  scenario  we're  of. And  internal  variability  is basically  everything. That's  what  this  tells  you is  if  you're  just  looking out  exile  of  decades, the  uncertainty  you  have  about future  global  potential  levels is  entirely  driven  by uncertainty  across  different  models. Models  are  disagreement  and  they're  producing different  results  and that's  producing  different. Then  Scenario  Sergyjust  takes over  scenario  Seratyays. Basically,  after  about  50  years, we  know  about  fo  years  in  the  future. The  difference  between the  high  emission  seria,  low  mission  seria, it's  gone  so  big  that  it doesn't  matter  how  much the  different  models  are  screen. It  doesn't  matter  how  much  the  models  have, say  different  assumptions, different  physics  behind  them. Because  basically  the  difference  you  get  in final  temperatures  is  entirely  common because  of  the  different  scenarios. That  makes  sense. This  is  when  you  break down  into  percentage  shares. This  is  what  things  look  like  when  you, when  you  have  total  variance. And  so  these  are  the  exact  same  information shown  in  two  different  ways  and  shows  sort of  something  misleading  that's  going  on  here. It's  not  just  the  shares of  variants  are  changing  over  time, it's  of  the  total  amount  of variance  over  time. So  here  it  looks like  model  Ertainty  is  going  down. It's  not  going  down  actually. The  models  between  models they're  disagreeing  more  and  more. But  the  growth  of how  much  they're  disagreeing  with  each other  is  less  extreme than  the  growth  how  much  the  scenarios are  discrete  with  each  other. This  last  piece  is  the  result  in  sets. I'll  just  point  out  that  actually  you would  get  very  different  results  at a  lot  more  total  certainty  if  you  were to  a  decadal  average. Obviously  every  ten  years you're  taking  the  average  meature, that's  where  you're  comparing  across these  models  and  trying  to  tiers versus  an  annual  average  annually. There's  just  a  lot  more  variation. The  total  variance  is  higher. And  it  turns  out  that  across those  different  the  scenario  values, it's  not  driven  by  model  certyf. Models  are  producing  things  actually even  the  same  model under  different  scenarios,  different  tubes. We'll  give  you completely  different  answers  anyway. It's  internal  variables. The  underlying  uncertainty  of  the  climate, just  giving  you  different  tenures in  different  individual  years. That's  the  orange  part  here. That's  why  it  ends  up  being  more  useful to  ignore  that  annual  variability  piece and  just  try  to  what's  happening, climate  logically,  what's happening  to  the  averages. All  right,  let  me  show  you  this in  a  very  different  context. This  is  a  map  of how  much  of  a  trend there's  been  across the  globe  in  temperatures. Each  one  of  these  cells, there's  been,  there  have been  variations  of  tempature  historically, the  ten  in  the  summer  tempatures we'd  like  to  know  is  how much  of  a  climate  signal  is  there, basically  to  what  extent all  variations  going  on  year  by year  in  the  historical  record for  each  of  these  locations. How  much  is  it  driven  by climate  change  versus  just  random  chance? I'm  going  to  go  back  to  the  map, but  I'm  going  to  first  explain these  three  things  and  those  numbers  there. This  is  the  summer global  mean  surface  tension. You  guys,  we'll  recognize this  from  news  articles. This  is  how  is very  gradual  increase  tenure  and then  post  about  1970  tees that  really  starts  to  take  off. This  is  just  average  tenure across  each  summer  period. That's  the  core  data  that  we  want  to  analyze, That's  the  data  that  we  want to  understand,  the  variance. The  first  thing  we're  going  to do  is  we're  going  to Split  it  out  into  three  different  components to  understand  how  much  those components  contribute. And  the  first  component  is  the  smooth out,  the  smooth  trend. Smooth  trend  is  calculated by  taking  a  moving  average across  the  data  set. And  that's  what  you  did  here. That  smooth  trend  basically  corresponds to  the  effect  of  climate  change. If  that  is  we  have  in an  area  that  we reasonably  believe  that  there's, there's  climate  change  driving temperature  change  in  that  area. The  second  piece  is  the  variation  to  cato. Variation  is  used  with  it's  using  paste. That  means  it  doesn't  matter,  but it's  basically  pulling out  the  gradual  changes that  happen  in  order  of  about  ten  years. The  climate  system  naturally has  variation  within  it. That  variation,  some  of the  variation  is  on  an  annual  basis, so  the  variation  is  on a  four  to  seven  year  basis. The  Lino  cycle  is about  four  to  seven  year  cycle. That's  actually  going  to  end  up in  this  material  piece, but  there  are  longer  cycles within  the  natural  climate  system, Things  like  the  North  Atlantic  oscillation, which  over  the  course  of  like 20  or  30  years  will naturally  go  through  warm  and  cold  periods, not  because  change,  just  because  it  doesn't. So  you  can  see  that over  the  course  of  the  period going  back  to  19001900, there's  a  warm  period  period. Whatever's  left  over  is the  triannual  variable. Those  are  the  three  things  that  we'd  like to  understand, how  much  of  each  of  them  contributing  to total  global  temperature  change. It  turns  out  that the  trend  is  by  far  the  largest  signal  we have  been  just  statistically  seen climate  change  driving temperatures  across  the  globe. The  variability  is  also the  three  over  ability. It  really  is  fairly  high, 20%  It  tells  you  something about  how  much  variation  tempertures is  driven  by  by  climate  change, but  that's  global  spoke  back  to  the  map. The  map  is  telling  us, the  map  is  telling  us  in each  location  how  much of  the  total  variance  is being  driven  by  the  effect of  the  smooth  trend. That  climate  change  piece,  the  average, is  up  here,  that's the  effect  of  the  trend  in  the  average. But  actually,  if  you  look  around  the  map, any  particular  location  isn't mostly  driven  by  trend. It  looks  like  the  amount  that the  trend  represents  is  more  like  20% What  this  is  telling  you  is  that local  climate  change  doesn't explain  that  much  of  the  variation. It's  only  when  you  look  globally that  you  really  see  it. One  of  the  areas  that  explains  the least  is  the  Midwest  of  the  US. Where  it  turns  out  that  the, I  mean,  temperatures  have been  doing  some  bizarre  things. People  think  that  it's  because  of the  combination  of  changes  in  agriculture, changing  community  across  the  Midwest and  changes  in  pollution causing  them  to  be  sort, well,  there's,  there's  a  long  period  of declining  temperatures  across  a  lot  of  the  US while  the  rest  of  the  world  was showing  this  statural  increase. Those  are  some  spots  of maps  that  are  displayed  because  we don't  data  interesting  saying that  but  now  looking  at  global, annual,  summertime  rainfall, you  can  see  here  this is  the  glowing  rainfall. It's  flat,  there  is  no  trend, There's  a  lot  going  on  to  cale, a  lot  of  increase  in  increases and  there  to  interior  variability. Interior  variability  just  random. Kansas  year  is  the  largest  contributor to  global  precipitation  currents. Breaking  down  to  individual  regions, you  can  see  some  regions  where the  trend  is  getting  up  to  maybe  the  '20s, but  most  of  it's  2%  or  less, just  the  way  that  this  looks  for  the  US. The  map  is  actually  just  just  the  same  map, but  I  sum  map, if  you  look  at  here, these  are  now  modified to  be  talking  about  the  averages  of  the  US. The  average  in  the  US. Went  through  the  periods and  there's  this  check  of  time  and '60s  things  were  defining  generally, this  is  let  an  increase than  a  lot  of  other  parts  of  the  globe. The  trends  just  explain a  less  of  the  variation. Interior  variability  is a  ton  more  the  more  region of  the  US  though  now  suddenly  do see  a  bit  of  an  effect  from  the  trend, precipitation'sing  direction that  we  expect  things  to going  out  in the  future  as  temperatures  increase, precipitation  on  average  increase. I've  had  these  slides in  presentations  I've  done for  the  years  since  my  Phd. I  think  you're  fascinating. Each  time  I  present  them, try  different  ways  to  break  down  questions since  okay,  just  2  minutes. Let  me  skitch  this. So  we're  going  to, over  the  course  of a  few  different  pieces  in  the  semester. Not,  not  like  the  whole  semester,  but, but  individual  classes  filling out  this  equation. This  equation  is  a  simple  way to  estimate  total  loss  in  consumption. Consumption  of  the  graph  there based  on  Cam  changes  expression. There  was  more  complicated  ways  of  doing  it. Here  is  the  final, observed  conception  comes  after  you. Climate  change  bar is  the  baseline  consumption, what  we  would  have had  not  for  climate  change, some  prefectural  scenario. And  then  one  minus  D  is  the  to  damages. We're  going  to  talk  about what  a  damage  function  is and  it's  basically  a  way  of translating  temptre  change to  percent  loss  of  GDP, or  welfare  equivalent  of GDP  a  little  bit to  get  some  of  these  terms  to  talk  about  how we  estimate  average  baseline  consumption, how  we  represent  damage  function. But  we've  actually  gotten  to the  pieces  here  which is  at  this  point  talk  about, about  global  temperature  change. The  T  there.  This  is  a  map, a  similar  point  looking at  change  temperature  at the  end  of  the  century  tail. This,  these  are  some  pit  grams  of,  uh, basically  total  consumption, average  consumption  under  a  ser, without  connections. And  so  with  change we'll  fall  into  some  other  pieces  there. But  what  I  want  to  get  into  is  that  we have  to  make  some  assumptions in  order  to  build  up  that  set  up. We're  talking  about  expected  utility expect  consumption, which  is  going  to  be  just the  average  consumption  number, our  different  watch  colors. So  we're  going  to,  we're  going  to end  up  assuming  a  lot  cases,  this  is  elastic. Consult  risks  utility  function  should  exist. Utility  of  some  consumption  level here,  special. And  then  we're  going  to  to the  questions  for  expect  excution. I  promise  to  go  back  to  the  graph that  set  up  ends up  imposing  some  interesting. It's  interesting  outcomes  on let  me  today  specifically  about  uncertainty. I  want  to  tell  you  about  the  consequences of  uncertainty  and  this  kind  of utility  Tion  under  certain, theseus  of  acting  utility  under  surgery. So  I'll  redraw  some of  these  graphs  anyway, if  you  could  just  know  that. So  imagine  that  you have  a  baseline  level  of  consumption. It  doesn't  matter  what,  what  it  is, but  something  like  $30,000  a  year. And  then  you  end up  with  different  climate  scenarios, one  of  which  says  under a  loss  of  two  degree  C, we're  going  to  become  person. So  we're  going  to  end  up  with  this  prime. Under  a  difference  equally  likely  scenario, we're  going  to  lose  twice  as  much. Because  we  are  then  asking  what  is expected  value  of  utility? We  were  going  to  end  up  saying, well,  what's  the  difference? What's,  what's  the  average between  this  point  here  and  this  point  here? It's  going  to  be  this  point  here. So  this  is  going  to  be  utility  of  pie plus  that's the  utility  of  up. That's  the  utility  of  C  prime. That's  utility  of  the  average. Utility  utility.  The  average. Why  is  it  important  that we  talk  about  the  average? It  versus  the  utility  of  the  average? Here,  it's  Melo's, basically  just  because this  function  is  coverage. So  the  utility  that  you  get  out  of these  two  scenarios  will  give  you  basically the  more  extreme  losses  are  going  to result  in  even  more extreme  losses  of  the  utility. Because  as  you  get  more  losses  here, the  slope  is  going  down  more. It  means  that  if  you were  to  instead  say,  okay, I  want  to  know  what  the  utility  is  of, the  average  loss  is  going  to be  somewhat  higher  than the  average  of  the  utilities. Was  unfair.  Why  am  I  taking the  average  of  utilities  because they  have  these  totals. Because  I'm  uncertain  about what's  actually  going  to happen  in  this  situation. I  could  end  up  with  a higher  or  lower  climate  loss. As  a  result  of  that,  I  could  end up  with  higher  utilities. We  had  to  come  up  with  some  way  of  valuing that  to  include  the  calculations. The  fact  that  as  it  more streams  you  end  up with  some  really  big  losses  of welfare  means  that  you're  going  to be  averse  to  those  extreme  muscles  are going  to  really  value  heavily the  possibility  that  you  could  be  over here  even  though  it's just  as  likely  as  being  over  here. We're  going  to  see  that  exact  same  set  of, we  see  that  the  same  thing  happen with  at  least  two  other  situations. Two  other  ethical  challenges  with contributory  happen  with  inequality, happen  with  generational generation  changes  basically, do  we  pay  now,  you  pay  later. I  call  it  an  ethical  issue  because  how extreme  you  make  this  curve  is going  to  tell  you  how  much  you're going  to  value  risk and  what  value  do  you  choose  is  going  to change  the  kinds  of results  you're  going  to  get out  of  any  calculation  to. I'll  leave  that.  We'll  see that  again  in  classes. Okay,  I  will.  Any  questions? I'll  see  you  guys  on  Thursday.
